QNA
Doha
Qatari economy proved its strength and robustness in facing the challenges aising out of the unjust siege, Minister of Economy and Commerce HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani has said.
"The economy also proved its capability to handle and overcome all the effects of the siege with the support of the wise economic policies of the leadership," he said while addressing the Advisory Council's regular weekly session.
Sheikh Ahmed said Qatar succeeded in overcoming the effects of the"treacherous and arbitrary measures" of the siege countries in full, within 36 hours, a response that was"the first of its kind in the world".
The siege imposed since June 5, 2017, he said, is a new phase in consolidating the strength of Qatar and promoting its independence and economic security. Qatar has overcome various challenges of supply to the domestic market and the movement of goods at ports and airports by strengthening existing business lines and developing new and direct lines with a number of strategic trading partners around the world, benefiting from the strategic facilities of the country such as Hamad Port and Hamad International Airport, he added.
The siege saw the Ministry of Economy and Commerce strengthening the logistics supply capacity in the country by reactivating the use of Al Ruwais Port to receive land supply operations through Turkey and Azerbaijan, through Iranian ports.
These major logistic capacities, which were built around the clock, has resulted in Qatar's foodstuffs and livestock imports increasing by 29.8 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017, in comparison with the same period in 2016, the minister said. Meanwhile, the food and beverages imports increased by 28.7 percent, he added.
Qatar's achievements during the period following the siege attest to the failure of the arbitrary measures of the siege countries, which only helped strengthening Qatar's faith in its citizens' capabilities.
"Qatar has consciously maintained its trade commitments with all countries, including the siege states, to give a lesson in the professionalism and responsibility of institutional action in states."
The minister also stressed the impact of these responsible measures in establishing the reputation and status of Qatar as a reliable and credible economic and trade partner of all parties in the international community."They also promoted Qatar as a safe investment destination when compared with other siege countries," he added
Sheikh Ahmed cited statistics to highlight the status and robustness of the Qatari economy at the world level.
Qatar's oil exports, he said, rose 25.2 percent in the fourth quarter of 2017 compared with the same period in 2016. The contribution of the oil and gas sector to the gross domestic product (GDP) in 2017 was 48 percent, at constant prices.
The minister said the period saw Qatar implementing its economic diversification policies with increased vigour.
In addition, Qatar moved towards supporting the private sector by offering administrative and legislative environment that encourages investment and business practices, he said.