Reuters
WASHINGTON
The US Supreme Court on Monday required Arizona to continue to provide driver's licenses to the so-called Dreamers immigrants and refused to hear the state's challenge to an Obama-era programme that protects hundreds of thousands of young adults brought into the country illegally as children.
The case centred on the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) programme created in 2012 under Democratic former President Barack Obama that Republican President Donald Trump already has sought to rescind. Those who signed up for the programme are shielded from deportation and given work permits.
The high court refused to hear Republican-governed Arizona's appeal of a lower court ruling that barred the state from denying driver's licences to people protected under DACA.
The justices on Feb. 26 required the Trump administration to keep DACA in place at least for now, turning away its appeal of a judge's nationwide injunction that halted the president's September order to begin winding down the programme in March.
San Francisco-based US District Judge William Alsup on January 9 ruled that the administration must continue to process renewals of existing DACA applications while litigation over the legality of the Republican president's bid to end the programme is resolved. A second federal judge has since issued a similar injunction.
After the DACA programmeme was put in place under Obama, Arizona's governor at the time, Republican Jan Brewer, directed state officials to prevent the programme's recipients from obtaining a driver's license in the state.
Non-citizens must prove they are authorised to be in the United States to obtain an Arizona driver's license, such as with a valid federal work permit. But the state decided not to accept permits obtained by DACA recipients. The American Civil Liberties Union sued on behalf of a group of DACA recipients who were denied driver's licenses. Arizona was the only state to deny licenses to DACA recipients, according to court papers.