Qatar Museums Opens 46 Internship Placements this Summer Posted on Comments Qatar Museums (QM) is offering internship opportunities for students in Qatar to enhance their skills at QM’s museums, programme’s departments and heritage sites. The summer internship period will run from May to August 2018 and is open to university students, recent graduates, and high school students. This year, QM is advertising 46 internship placements, covering 30 distinct projects and learning experiences, that range from Archaeology, to Architecture and Design, Collections Management, Curatorial work, Business Administration, IT, Engineering, Conservation, Library Studies and Education. For QM, the scope of the internship opportunities illustrates the wide range of jobs in cultural institutions in Qatar. All interns will be granted a Certificate of Completion Letter for successfully completing the program. The deadline for students wishing to apply for the summer internship is 15 April 2018. Speaking about the opportunities the internships provide, Dr Jelena Trkulja, Director of Education at QM said: Although Qatar Museums has offered internship placements in the past, this year we are commencing with a structured Internship Program offering specific, targeted educational opportunities with clearly defined learning outcomes, organised around the school year calendar.’ She continued: We have worked closely with Qatar’s universities and the new framework is responding to their academic standards and demands, while also following international best practice. The internships are highly selective and will give the successful candidates practical experience of working in one of the world’s leading cultural institutions, acquainting them with possible future careers.’ Informal learning is one of the pillars of QM and the Internship Program represents its dedication to sharing knowledge and nurturing new talent in the areas of arts and culture by exposing the younger generations to the work and practice of cultural institutions. For QM, this is an ambition that will help fulfil the cultural goals of the 2030 Qatar National Vision and create a knowledge-based economy. For more information about the Internship Program with the list of descriptions, please visit our website at http://www.qm.org.qa/en/Internship-programs