Comments 
Qatar Airways’ Frequent Flyer Programme, Privilege Club is delighted to announce the launch of its refreshed brand identity under the slogan – ‘Don’t just collect miles, collect memories’. 
The refreshed brand identity, which was initially announced at ITB Berlin earlier this month, will include a range of new programme enhancements, and a new luxurious look and feel to the programme, coinciding more closely with Qatar Airways brand. 
Exclusive Offers 
Over the upcoming weeks, Privilege Club will launch a number of celebratory offers and more programme enhancements, including a new member log in area, dashboard and other functionalities designed to make the members’ experience with Qatar Airways easier and more seamless than ever before. Programme guides have also been updated to reflect the new programme changes and newly added partnerships. For Platinum members, the design will allow them to enjoy newly designed membership packs, cards and baggage tags. 
The first celebratory offer commences this week and on 12 April. Privilege Club members get an exclusive chance to earn 3,000 bonus Qmiles in Premium Class and 1,500 bonus Qmiles in Economy Class when they book a ticket by 12 April for travel until 30 September. Terms and conditions apply. 
There is also a second celebratory offer between 1- 15 April 2018, and will offer Privilege Club members an exclusive chance to take advantage of a 50% Qmiles discount when they pay using Qmiles at select stores inside the Hamad International Airport and at the Oryx Galleria . Check out this link for more information. 
Additional Privileges 
Additional improvements as part of Qatar Airways’ Privilege Club rebrand include allowing members to do all their account activities online, including purchasing award tickets using Qmiles, nominating family members to join their membership account, updating personal profiles and requesting services including cabin upgrades, excess baggage, date changes, refunds and much more. 
Qatar Airways continues to innovate its product offering and services for all its passengers. Just recently, the award-winning airline launched its latest loyalty programme for its youngest passengers – Oryx Kids Club and Oryx Kids Loyalty Programme, designed to put even more fun into flying for children. 
The Oryx Kids Club and Oryx Kids Loyalty Programme offer a special children’s in-flight meal boxes and plush toys on board, in addition to new and exclusive frequent flyer programme designed just for young passengers. Children between the ages of two and eleven will be able to register for the Oryx Kids Loyalty Programme and earn Qmiles, which they can redeem for attractive awards and exclusive benefits. They will also earn Qpoints, which will allow them to upgrade to a higher tier. 
For more information and updates, visit the Qatar Airways website through this link .