Comments 
Qatar Airways is introducing its revolutionary Business Class seat, Qsuite , on flights from Chicago starting this April, allowing even more travellers to experience the new standard of luxury and comfort in international travel. 
The introduction of the globally-acclaimed Business Class seat on Qatar Airways flights from Chicago extends Qsuite’s existing presence in the US – at New York City’s John F Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and in Washington DC, at Washington Dulles International Airport (IAD). 
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar Al Baker, said they are tremendously excited to bring this luxurious, one-of-a-kind product to the Windy City , enabling travellers departing from Chicago to experience the revolutionary product for themselves. 
Qsuite features the industry’s first-ever double bed available in Business Class and customisable private cabins for up to four people, perfect for friends, families and business colleagues travelling together. With adjustable panels and movable TV monitors on the centre four seats, Qsuite provides the ultimate personalised travel experience that enables passengers to create an environment that suits their own unique needs. 
The expansion of Qsuite to Chicago is part of Qatar Airways’ commitment to continuously revolutionise the passenger experience, enabling travellers to enjoy First Class amenities within the airline’s Business Class cabin. Qsuite will be fitted on the Qatar Airways Boeing 777-300 ER out of Chicago O’Hare International Airport, and will later be introduced on the airline’s state-of-the-art Airbus A350-900 aircraft on flights from New York City – the first US destination to feature Qsuite. 
The expansion of Qsuite throughout the US follows a triumphant year of award wins. One of the world’s fastest-growing airlines, Qatar Airways currently operates a modern fleet of more than 200 aircraft flying to business and leisure destinations across six continents. 
For more information and updates, visit the Qatar Airways website through qatarairways.com .