al khaliji Receives Leadership Award from Qatar CSR Report Posted on Comments Al Khalij Commercial Bank PQSC (al khaliji) received an award from Qatar CSR Report at a ceremony held at Qatar University recently. The bank has been honoured for its tremendous contribution towards social cause and empowering companies in enhancing the Qatar economy. On receiving the prestigious award, al khaliji Group CEO Fahad Al Khalifa , thanked the organisers and reaffirmed their commitment to continue working for the betterment of Qatar economy and empowering local companies to attain growth. We regard Corporate Social Responsibility as an essential investment for the future of Qatar and our business. Our commitment is reflected through our employees, health, and environment policies, and externally through our observance of human rights for workers, community development programmes, and our adherence to fair competition guidelines.’ As important as helping build a healthy, productive society is to al khaliji’s community development goals, extending a helping hand to the underprivileged and those in need always comes first in the bank’s CSR programme. This year, al khaliji extended its support to IHSAN Centre , one of the affiliated centres of Qatar Foundation for Social Work (QFSW) that seeks to empower the elderly and promote solidarity between generations. An integral component of al khaliji’s corporate social responsibility purpose over the years has been the buildup and empowerment of a local pool of talents that can lead and shape the next transformative era for Qatar. To this end, al khaliji has mapped out a strategic course of action fostering an environment of creativity, entrepreneurial and educational latitude for the national workforce inside its organisation and among members of the Qatari community at large. The Qatar CSR Report monitors and evaluates the progress made each year in the area of sustainable development in society, with particular focus on CSR and contributions to Qatar National Vision 2030 . The CSR awards ceremony was attended by a number of dignitaries, industry experts, ministers and ambassadors, as well as representatives of non-government organisations, academic institutions and senior faculty from Qatar University. 
For more information and updates about al khaliji, follow them on Facebook and Twitter .