Double for trainers Ramzani, Jahromi and Kasim
Tribune News Network
DOHA
For the second consecutive day, rider Faleh Bughanaim defeated British star Harry Bentley and won the feature event during the Race Meeting.
At the Qatar Racing and Equestrian Club in New Al Rayyan on Thursday, Bughanaim and Cannon were up against Bentley and Mosayter in the battle for the Al Britha Cup.
Bughanaim and the five-year-old bay colt managed to beat Mosayter by three quarters of a length to claim the feature race over 1,850m. Salman Bu Thaila was third by over one and a half length, while Asser and Moaddie bagged the fourth and fifth spots, respectively.
This was the third triumph in a row for the highest rated Cannon. Besides the fourth winner of the season, Cannon raised his winner's tally to six in 15 runs in Doha.
On Wednesday also, Bughanaim guided MJ Lattam to a thrilling short-head triumph over Rassan, ridden by Bentley, on the way to winning the Fuweiret Cup.
This was also the second winner of the day for trainer Hadi Nasser Rashid al Ramzani, whose trainee Random Decision, with Marc Lerner astride, clinched the third race on the menu, Thoroughbred Maiden Plate Class 6 (for 3 years olds) with an over one length victory against Barig Al Thumama.
Two other trainers Jassim Mohammed Ghazali Jahromi and Mohammed Riyaz Ibrahim Kasim also contrived two winners each to share the limelight.
Bentley led Shaheen bin Khalid Shaheen al Ghanim-owned Galactic Prince to a two-and-a-half-length win in the Thoroughbred Handicap Class 4 2,000m against Rich History (Gerald Avranche), while JP Guillambert pushed Opera Baron, owned by Khalifa bin Sheail al Kuwari, to a narrow nose triumph against Al Mohalhal (Jean Baptiste Hamel) in the Thoroughbred Conditions Class 2. Both the winners were trained by Jahromi.
Kasim's Al Khazileah, owned by Mehsaal bin Ali al Attiyah, was taken to a close victory by Almotasem al Balushi in the Local Thoroughbred Maiden Plate Div 2 against Mister Mahjoob. His Injaaz Stud-owned ward Erroneous, ridden by Rashid Ali al Marri, put up a good display to hold off Hydroxide by a length in the Thoroughbred Handicap Class 4.