REUTERS
WASHINGTON
PRESIDENT Donald Trump accused Amazon.com Inc on Thursday of not paying enough tax, taking advantage of the US postal system and putting small retailers out of business, but did not present any evidence to back up his criticisms or suggest any specific actions he planned to take.
Trump has attacked Amazon and its Chief Executive Jeff Bezos several times, and his latest comment on Twitter came a day after news website Axios reported that Trump was obsessed with the world's largest online retailer and wanted to rein in its growing power with federal antitrust laws.
"I have stated my concerns with Amazon long before the Election. Unlike others, they pay little or no taxes to state & local governments, use our Postal System as their Delivery Boy (causing tremendous loss to the US), and are putting many thousands of retailers out of business!" Trump tweeted early on Thursday.
Amazon shares fell as much as 4.5 percent in morning trade, but later pared losses, down 1.3 percent at midday. The stock dropped 5 percent on Wednesday following the Axios report. Amazon declined to comment on the tweet. It was not clear what Trump's comments were based on.
Amazon has in the past been criticised for attempting to skirt state sales taxes, but since April last year it has voluntarily collected state sales tax on items it sells direct to customers in all 45 states that have one. Amazon does not have to collect taxes on third-party or marketplace sellers.
States and municipalities could gain between $8 billion and $13 billion in annual revenue if they could require online retailers to collect sales tax, according to the non-partisan Government Accountability Office.
The issue is still being disputed at the federal level, with the US Supreme Court set to hear oral arguments on April 17 in a case which could reverse a 1992 decision and let states require online retailers to collect state sales tax.
Washington and Pennsylvania recently enacted laws requiring collection of third-party merchants' sales taxes, and other states are expected to follow.