Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Charity's (QC) winter camp in Al Shahaniya hosted two delegations from the Qatar Foundation for Elderly People Care (Ehsan) and Orphans Care Center (Dreama) recently.
It aimed to provide entertainment activities for the elderly and orphans, and strengthen partnerships with community institutions.
QC hosted elderly people from Ehsan in the presence of students of Qatar University's Social Work Program to promote interaction between the community members and express gratitude for what they have done for the benefit of the community.
The QC aimed, through the event, to encourage the elderly to participate in recreational and awareness activities that would make them happy. Many activities, including chess and carrom, were organised for the elderly as part of the programme.
Sheikh Ayesh al Qahtani said that there is a need to learn the skills and techniques to deal with elderly people in the best ways that increase their self-confidence. He pointed out that the respect for the elderly is very important in our daily lives in order to build better generations and a brighter future.
"It is very important to reinvigorate the interest of the elderly people in their lives and make them feel that they are responsible for us, even at this age," Qahtani added.
Adel Lamy, director of public relations department at QC, said:"We are pleased to host community organisations in our winter camp as part of our partnership with youth clubs, schools, universities and institutions. At the camp, we provide an atmosphere suitable for organising various entertainment activities. Our pleasure is multiplied when we host elderly people or orphans, because they have rights upon the community."
Children from Dreama participated in various recreational and awareness activities at the camp. A number of staff from QC and Dreama, in addition to the prominent mediapersons including Nadine al Bitar, news anchor at Qatar TV; and Salsabil Zayed, an anchor at Sout Al Khaleej Radio; also took part in the activities. The camp also held general competitions between orphans and distributed prizes and gifts to the winners.
QC's winter camp in Al Shahaniya was held for six months and provided a good environment to accommodate all segments of the society, with some days allotted for families and school students.