Tribune News Network
DOHA
Qatar Airways (QA) on Thursday revealed a breathtaking exclusive video of a head-to-head race between the Formula E Spark SRT-01E race car and the airline's latest generation Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Airbus A350 aircraft at the Hamad International Airport (HIA) to celebrate its partnership with the electric street racing series.
The head-to-head race showcased in the video to the amazement of the airline's fans first shows a race between Airbus A350 upon takeoff and the latest-generation electronic Formula E series race car.
This was followed by a second spectacular race as a Boeing 787 Dreamliner touches down at the HIA.
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar al Baker said,"Qatar Airways strives to always be ahead of the curve when it comes to its environmental credentials and flying one of the most modern fleets in the sky. For our sporting partnerships, this is as important to us when represented as a sponsor, which is why we have chosen the future of motor racing and Formula E with their latest environmentally friendly technology, which they combine into this exciting sport. We trust that our loyal passengers and fans of Formula E around the world will enjoy watching this race in anticipation of finding out exactly who will win this thrilling event."
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Formula-E Alejandro Agag said,"It is great to be working with a partner who shares our values in sustainability. Qatar Airways is a global brand who is leading this charge. This breathtaking video demonstrates our shared passion to strive for excellence. Formula E races take place in the heart of some of the world's greatest cities, such as Paris and New York, with the support of Qatar Airways to help us in going places together."
Each of the exciting races were driven with Formula E and DRAGON driver Jerome D'Ambrosio, during which the first race commenced with a fixed start line and ended with the aircraft taking off into the skies above Qatar.
Earlier this year, Qatar Airways and Formula E announced the enhancement of their partnership as the Official Title Sponsor of both the Paris E-Prix taking place in April and the New York City E-Prix which will take place in July, as well as naming Qatar Airways as the Official Airline for both the Rome and Berlin races taking place in April and May of this year respectively.
Qatar Airways believes in the power of sport in bringing people together and sponsors many top-level sporting events around the world. Besides sponsoring Formula E, Qatar Airways is also the Official Airline Partner of FIFA, which includes 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia, the FIFA Club World Cup, the FIFA Women's World Cup and the 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar.