NORTH Korea's supreme leader Kim Jong Un's unannounced visit to China has surprised everyone. Perhaps, nobody outside the close circle of Kim and the Chinese President Xi Jinping had foggiest idea about the visit and what the reclusive North Korean leader had on his mind. Not till the mysterious train carrying Kim chugged out of Beijing was news confirmed that Kim was indeed in China on some important mission. The train drew everybody's attention because it was a reminder of Kim's father Kim Jong-II who too chose to travel by train whenever he visited China. It was also Kim's first visit abroad since he assumed power in 2011.
No less surprising is the outcome of Kim-Xi meeting. Chinese leaders and media have confirmed that Kim assured Xi he is committed to denuclearisation" of Korea. Kim talked positively about the peace in the Korean peninsula and in the region. Xi and Kim also decided to meet frequently to exchange their views.
No doubt, the words coming out of China are reassuring. The message it has sent out is that the momentum towards thaw in relations between North and South Korea that began from the winter Olympics continues on positive track. South Korea, Japan and the US have welcomed the development and expressed hope that the thaw will lead to peace in the region. In a flurry of developments following Kim's reassuring words, leaders of China and South Korea met in Seoul on Thursday and Japan lost no time in expressing desire to have a bilateral summit with North Korea. The two Koreas have also announced the date of their first summit, to be held on April 27, in more than a decade. It's expected that the North Korean leader and the US President Donald Trump will meet after Kim's summit talks with the South Korea's President Moon Jae-in.
It would be premature at this juncture to speculate about Trump's talks with Kim, which is expected to take place after the two Koreas' summit. But the pace of developments should make Trump and his advisors plan for the meeting with open mind. Trump's response so far has been measured; he has given positive vibes giving up his usual impetuosity through tweets, which is a reason for hope.
President Trump would do well to keep in mind that Kim has wrested the initiative on the issue. He surprised everybody with his Olympic diplomacy. He has sprung a surprise with his China trip in view of the fact Kim's relations with Xi had been frosty for some time. It's the responsibility of all stakeholders to work towards peace and stability in the Korean peninsula and in the region.