Tribune News Service
INNOVATION isn't an easy road. Every improving technology occasionally lets us down, sometimes with deadly consequences. Look to Uber's travail in Tempe, Arizona, as the latest example.
Maybe you've seen the video from an Uber self-driving SUV of that tragic moment: Elaine Herzberg, 49, is walking her bicycle across multiple lanes of roadway, moving from left to right. Cruising at about 40 mph in the far right lane, the Uber vehicle slams into Herzberg, killing her. A separate camera view shows the vehicle's human safety driver, there to take control in an emergency, with eyes off the road and looking down before the crash. After impact, the safety driver looks up, stunned.
In assessing what went wrong, there's a lot to unpack. The growing consensus is that the self-driving car's technology, as designed, should have detected Herzberg in enough time to brake. That technology includes laser sensors, radar, and front, side and rear cameras a combination engineered to see better than humans can, and react faster.
The collision happened at night, but a self-driving car's robot eyes work best at night. Bad weather can interfere with the car's vision, but the weather was clear. Then there's the inattentive safety driver, put behind the wheel to intervene in such situations, who happens to have a history of traffic violations.
Herzberg's death marks the first time a pedestrian has been killed by a self-driving car. Uber, which has been testing self-driving cars in several American cities, has stopped doing so while the Tempe investigation continues. This week, Arizona Governor Doug Ducey added to Uber's woes by suspending its driverless testing programme in his state, calling the March 18 incident"an unquestionable failure" to safely test self-driving cars.
Some critics want to go further. A group called Consumer Watchdog wants a national moratorium applied to all driverless car enterprises those of Waymo, Lyft, Ford and others that conduct tests on US roadways until experts figure out how to fix what went wrong in Arizona. The recoiling is understandable, but it's shortsighted.
We offer condolences to the victim here, and to her family. But in this as in other avenues of progress, technology often fails before it can succeed. Failures inform. They tell engineers, scientists and innovators what needs to be reworked. And in the fledgling arena of autonomous car technology, on-the-road, real-world testing is the only way these cars can reach a point where they're safer than having humans behind the wheel.
Driverless cars have remarkable potential to make streets and highways safer than they've ever been. They'll take out of the equation the barroom drunk who insists on driving home, the reckless speeder who weaves in and out of lanes slalom-style, the distracted driver checking a text while merging onto the Kennedy. But those who would use the death in Tempe to slam the brakes on the development of these vehicles risk keeping all of us from that smarter, safer future.