QNA
Doha
The rapid increase of cyber crime jeopardises the interests of individuals and countries security and economy, said Director of the Criminal Investigation Department (CID) Brigadier Jamal al Kaabi, calling for more effort and solidarity among all segments of society to address these crimes.
Kaabi made the call at a conference on law to combat cyber crime organised by the Ministry of Interior (MoI) on Thursday.
Kaabi added that the response to these crimes comes through raising awareness of their dangers and effects and the criminal legal texts stipulating acts that people may engage in without realising that they violate the law.
He stressed the need to educate society on the best ways to use the Internet safely in general and social networking sites in particular.
Kaabi said that the invitation to the conference comes within the ministry's keenness to maintain the security and safety of the community and to ensure the optimal use of the Internet, taking into account the preservation of personal or functional data from access to others and to achieve the highest standards of electronic security for individuals and institutions.
He said that unlike traditional crimes, electronic crimes, and extortion crime in particular, are some of the most difficult crimes to detect in modern times and require double efforts to deal with, adding that conventional crime declined compared to cyber crime in all areas.
He described cyber crimes as dangerous because of their psychological repercussions on the victim, pointing to the danger of sending work information through social media, especially WhatsApp by staff and employees in government departments.
He warned against sending important instructions or data related to work such networks, urging media and social media celebrities to spread awareness about the dangers of using social networks at work.
On his part, Captain Engineer Medawi Saeed al Qahtani, head of the Department of Economic and Electronic Crimes Department at CID, stressed the need to educate the public and encourage them not to publish their personal information and not to over-portray their daily life events on social media networks.
He called on parents to monitor the children's use of the Internet, mobile phones and other electronic devices.
Assistant professor of law at Ahmed Bin Mohammed Military College Dr Anwar Sidqi al Moussada called on all sectors of the society to become acquainted with the law of combating cyber crime so that everyone is fully aware of the nature of these crimes and the types and penalties associated with the acts, pointing out that ignorance of law does not exempt one from punishment.
He said that the penalties electronic crimes may reach up to three years imprisonment and a fine of QR500,000, stressing that there are cases where the penalty is even tougher.
Mohammed Abu Zeid from CID alerted about frauds and their types on social networking sites, adding that most of the electronic fraud are coming from this section.
Abu Zeid added that perpetrators of cyber crime have many methods, including the use of social engineering in fraud, using information disseminated by social media users about themselves, their families, activities, photos and other personal information.
The conference included comprehensive presentations on the law of combating cyber crime.