QNA
Geneva
Despite the unjust siege on Qatar and human rights violations against it citizens, Qatar has not used retaliatory measures against the blocking countries, said Speaker of the Advisory (Shura) Council Ahmed bin Abdullah bin Zaid al Mahmoud.
Mahmoud made the statement while highlighting repercussions of the Gulf crisis on the entire region during a series of meetings with the heads of the (12+) parliaments, including European countries as well as Australia and Canada, and the heads of parliaments of Latin American and Caribbean countries on the sidelines of the 138th General Assembly meeting of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU).
He reviewed some other examples of violations of human rights and freedom of expression, including the issuance by the four countries of laws that criminalise their citizens and residents' sympathising with Qatar with penalties including 15 years' imprisonment for anyone sympathetic to Qatar, as well as asking their citizens to leave Qatar within 15 days, and Qatari nationals to leave their countries with the same period.
Mahmoud said the arbitrary measures of the siege countries included the expulsion of Qatari students from schools and universities and from Makkah during the performance of Umrah in Ramadan.
He added that the blocking countries refused to accept payment of currency and credit cards from Qatari banks, which led to some citizens borrowing from others to be able to pay their hotel bills.
He said Qatar has not taken similar measures, in accordance with the directives of HH the Emir to ensure the dignity of residents of Qatar.
He said if Qatar wanted to do the same, a crisis would occur in Egypt if Qatar had decided to expel 250,000 Egyptians in Qatar, adding that Qatar is still exporting gas to the UAE to avoid impact on the ordinary people because if Qatar had stopped it one-third of Dubai and one-third of Abu Dhabi the country would be in total darkness.
He said,"Despite the request of Qatar from the blockading countries to provide an evidence to HH the Emir of Kuwait, the mediator in resolving the crisis, on accusing Qatar of terrorism, but they did not submit any. The siege countries submitted 13 demands to the Kuwaiti mediator. These demands have been rejected, including the closure of Al Jazeera and other media."
"The violations were documented in a report by the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, which visited Doha," Mahmoud said.
The speaker of the Advisory (Shura) Council stressed that Qatar is determined not to harm ordinary people, adding that the country believe in resolving the dispute through dialogue and respect
He said though Qatar has overcome the crisis, the country is concerned about the humanitarian issues between families, because in the Gulf there are mixed marriages - husband from a country and wife from another.