Tribune News Network
Doha
MORE than 85,000 patients received care at Hamad Medical Corporation's (HMC) dental clinics last year, including specialised services such as periodontal care and implants, orthodontic services, prosthodontic procedures, oral surgery, and endodontic and restorative treatments.
HMC's Dental Health Service provides specialist dental care, specifically acute care that should be delivered in a hospital setting and is often not available elsewhere in the country.
Commenting on the service, Dr Ghanim al Mannai, Dental Service Chairman and Senior Consultant Endodontics at HMC, said:"The Hamad Dental Service provides highly specialised dental care to adult and paediatric patients from all over Qatar. Much of this care is delivered through dental clinics located across HMC's network of community hospitals, including Al Wakra Hospital, Al Khor Hospital and The Cuban Hospital. Treatment is also offered at our main location, the Hamad Dental Center, which is located at Rumailah Hospital."
The importance of dentistry and good oral health practices was highlighted during this year's World Oral Health Day celebrations. To mark the occasion, on March 20, the National Oral Health Committee hosted a number of educational activities across Qatar, including Doha's Hamad Dental Center. This year, the theme of World Oral Health Day was 'Say Ahh'. According to Dr Mannai, the day provided an opportunity to highlight how and why oral health affects an individual's overall health.
"A healthy mouth and a healthy body go hand in hand. This year's campaign theme prompts people to recognise that good oral health affects their general health. It makes us stop and think about how one impacts the other," added Dr Mannai.
Dr Mohammed Sultan al Darwish, consultant in dental public health, explained there is often a link between oral diseases and other health conditions, with oral diseases often increasing one's risk of developing a number of other diseases, including diabetes, cardiovascular and respiratory disease, and some cancers.
Dr Najat al Sayed, orthodontics and senior dentistry consultant, said:"Brushing one's teeth after each meal per day, flossing daily and consuming a healthy diet are simple things that can be done to protect a person's oral health and overall well-being."