Tribune News Network
Doha
Qatar University (QU) has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Louis Berger Egis Rail Joint Venture (JV) to provide young students with mentoring, internships and training programmes to enhance their potential and create opportunities for their career advancement.
The MoU was signed by QU V-P for Academic Affairs Dr Omar al Ansari, Louis Berger Senior Vice-President and Managing Director Middle East North Africa Belal Deiranieh and Qatar Egis Country Manager Alexandre Busson in the presence of French Ambassador to Qatar HE Eric Chevallier, officials from QU, Louis Berger and Egis Rail, and representatives from the US Embassy in Qatar.
The MoU aims to strengthen the collaboration between QU and Louis Berger Egis Rail Joint Venture, providing a foundation to fulfil the goals of Qatar National Vision 2030 such as the development and sustainability of the society and economy. The terms of the MoU include collaboration between QU and Louis Berger Egis Rail Joint Venture on the exchange of experiences and information including publications, periodicals, studies, statistics and data, as well as the organisation of studies, conferences and training.
Dr Ansari said:"QU is committed to fostering links with the various sectors of society and to keeping abreast of the various needs of the labour market. The MoU will help the University establish a clearer vision when develop strategic plans related to its colleges and academic programmes in line with its role to equip the labour market with high professional competencies who will contribute to the fulfilment of the goals of Qatar National Vision 2030."
HE Eric Chevallier said:"France is strongly committed to human capital development in Qatar. This MoU is a new demonstration of it. And there will be others."
Deiranieh said:"The principal aim of the MoU is to recruit and develop Qatar University's graduates and students by placing them into development roles on transportation projects. By way of on-the-job training, the graduates and students will experience actual construction and project delivery, a great opportunity for young minds to relate classroom education with practical experience."
Busson said:"This MoU sets out the grounds of the professional collaboration between the parties and the students, which will result in specialised and sophisticated programmes to facilitate the placement of QU's graduates and engineering graduates into roles in Qatar."