Tribune News Network
DOHA
Qatar Superstock 600 title challenger Mashel al Naimi grabbed the first Superpole of the season, beating defending champion Saeed al Sulaiti by more than half a second at the Losail International Circuit on Friday.
Naimi, who is four points behind leader Sulaiti, clocked a hot 2:04.383 in his second lap and will head the front row of the fourth round race on Saturday.
'Today was a very difficult day for me right from the beginning and I started very slow this morning. I tried to push because last week I did 2.03.7 and today I tried to go to 2.04 but it was impossible," said Naimi.
"In the Free Practice 2 I put new tyres to see if I can improve but the lap time was the same. In the Superpole I found something in the steering dumper. Last week it was harder and today it was different. So when I made it harder, I felt a big difference and managed to get a good lap time, 2.04.3. But in any case, we still need to do the same and hopefully, I will be able to do as well as I could do last week," Naimi added.
Sulaiti will start from the second place on the grid after clocking 2:05.103, being 0.720 slower than Naimi. 'Today we started the free practices in a really hot temperature, trying to find the right setup with the bike and we thought that we found the solution but unfortunately we were not fast enough," he said.
"For the race, we will try to do some changes so that I can get a better feeling with the bike. We hope that we fight for the victory tomorrow. I am really happy that Abdullah will start from the first row from the first time. He did it amazing today and his lap timing is really fast, improving a lot and I hope he can stay with us in the race," Sulaiti added.
Abdullah al Qubaisi (2:05.612) and Nasser al Malki will start in third and fourth place, respectively.
In the QSTK Trophy, the fastest rider was Essa al Mutawa. Soud al Thani and the Kuwaiti rider Mohammad al Zaidan finished second and third in this class.
Mutawa was very happy with his performance today."I am very happy to be the fastest rider in the QSTK Trophy and tomorrow I am ready to race for the victory. I have been training very hard during the last month and I have to do some small changes in the setup. Hopefully we can fix it and I will 100 percent ready for tomorrow," Mutawa said.
On Saturday, QSTK Race 1 starts at 11:30 and Race 2 at 15:30. There is free entrance at the Grandstand and Paddock for all the spectators.