Tribune News Network
Doha
FIFTY-SIX mechanical engineering undergraduate students from Qatar University College of Engineering (QU-CENG) presented their capstone designs for a Qatar University-Boeing Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) project as part of an ongoing collaboration with Boeing to help develop the next generation of engineers in Qatar.
As part of Boeing's University Grant and partnership with Qatar University to provide real world, hands-on experience to engineering students, the engineering undergraduates were asked to design an external cargo bay on a fixed-wing drone to maximize payload.
Their designs were graded on two criteria: the quantity of payload their UAV can carry and the accuracy of depositing their payloads in a landing zone. The final projects were also graded based on teamwork and documentation, their reporting, as well as their presentations. Boeing provided material and technical support to the projects.
QU-CENG Dean Dr Khalifa al Khalifa said:"CENG is proud to be involved in such an exciting cooperation with Boeing to provide a series of activities that help students create a new path of future careers in the aircraft industry and discover its various areas in a way that enhance their capacities, build their skills and get them connected with experts and professionals."
President of Boeing Middle East, North Africa and Turkey, Bernard Dunn, said:"In line with Qatar National Vision 2030, Boeing is a strong supporter of the country's strategic goals. Developing our youth with the skills they need specifically areas of STEM will help the next generation of Qataris evolve the economy and excel in their careers."
One of the CENG students, Mohammad Jahidul Alam said:"The UAV Project has been an invaluable learning experience giving students the opportunity to put into practice the knowledge gained throughout our time at university. It has allowed us a chance to get a taste of what it is like to work on real-world design projects and helped us learn the true value of time management and teamwork. With the support of Boeing, we were able to have this experience and see our ideas and designs come to life."