Qatar Airways and Formula E Celebrate Partnership through Exciting Race Posted on Comments 
Qatar Airways revealed a breathtaking exclusive video of a head-to-head race between the Formula E Spark SRT-01E race car and the airline’s latest generation Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Airbus A350 aircraft at Hamad International Airport (HIA) , to celebrate its partnership with the electric street racing series. 
The head-to-head race, showcased in the video to the amazement of fans around the globe, first showed a race between the state-of-the-art Airbus A350 upon take off alongside the latest-generation electronic Formula E series race car, swiftly followed by a second race as Boeing 787 Dreamliner touches down at HIA. 
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar Al Baker, said they always strive to be ahead of the curve when it comes to its environmental credentials and flying one of the most modern fleets in the sky. 
For our sporting partnerships, this is as important to us when represented as a sponsor, which is why we have chosen the future of motor racing and Formula E with their latest environmentally friendly technology, which they combine into this exciting sport. We trust that our loyal passengers and fans of Formula E around the world will enjoy watching this race, in anticipation of finding out exactly who will win this thrilling event.’ 
Founder and Chief Executive Officer of Formula-E, Alejandro Agag, said it’s great to be working with a partner who shares their values. 
Each of the exciting races were driven with Formula E and DRAGON driver Jerome D’Ambrosio. The first race commenced with a fixed start line and ended with the aircraft taking off. Earlier this year, Qatar Airways and Formula E announced the enhancement of their partnership at a press conference in Doha, where Qatar Airways was named the Official Title Sponsor of the Paris E-Prix taking place in April and the New York City E-Prix which will take place in July. Qatar Airways is also the Official Airline for both the Rome and Berlin races taking place in April and May this year. 
Qatar Airways believes in the power of sport in bringing people together and sponsors many top-level sporting events around the world. As well as sponsoring Formula E, Qatar Airways is also the Official Airline Partner of FIFA, which includes 2018 FIFA World Cup Russia™, the FIFA Club World Cup™, the FIFA Women’s World Cup™ and the 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar™. 
For more information and updates about Qatar Airways, visit their website at qatarairways.com .