AilynA gonia
Doha
Philippine Airlines (PAL) held a gathering at the Holiday Inn Hotel Doha on Thursday to celebrate the second anniversary of PAL's service between Doha and Manila.
The event highlighted the success of the Philippine flag carrier in the Qatar market. It was attended by Philippine Ambassador to Qatar HE Alan L. Timbayan along with Consul General Atty. Roussel Reyes, Philippine Labour Attache to Qatar David Des Dicang and other officials at the Philippine Embassy Doha.
Speaking on the occasion, Ambassador Timbayan congratulated PAL not only for its successful venture in Qatar but also in being active supporter to numerous community initiatives including the programmes of the Embassy.
"We commend PAL for its commitment to serve our community through its various initiatives and corporate social responsibility efforts. We also appreciate PAL's partnership and support for the Embassy's cultural and tourism promotion projects and initiatives," the envoy said.
"As PAL continues to serve our community in Qatar, we aim to invigorate our tourism promotion campaigns in order to increase tourist arrivals in the Philippines from this part of the world for them to discover the wonders of the Philippines," Ambassador Timbayan added.
In his remarks, PAL Area Manager for Qatar Marvin Aranzanso presented the enhancements in the service delivery of PAL to better serve its patrons in Qatar. These include eliminating the stopover in Abu Dhabi in March last year switching to full non-stop flights to Manila for added comfort and convenience of passengers and offering Business Class service by utilising the airlines' Airbus A330 aircraft with capacity of 368 seats just a couple of months after. He also underscored PAL's distinct brand of service known as 'Buong Pusong Alaga' which highlights the distinctly warm and caring service Filipinos are known for.
"We derive inspiration to continue improving our service from the loyal support of our kababayans, our overseas Filipino workers, our partners among the local travel agents, the Philippine Embassy and the Qatari people. This anniversary celebration comes on the heels of two significant milestones for PAL last March 15, PAL turned 77 years old making us Asia's oldest operating airline. A month earlier, on February 8, PAL was certified a 4-Star airline by Skytrax, the global airline rating company," Aranzanso said.
"However, becoming a 4-Star is but a stop-over to the ultimate goal of being a 5-Star airline by the year 2020. We have so much work to do to pursue various initiatives so that we can consistently provide the desired customer experience worthy of that 5-Star," Aranzanso added.