Al Sadd Confident of Making AFC Champions League Knockout Al Sadd Confident of Making AFC Champions League Knockout 2.5 5 
Published April 1st, 2018 - 17:08 GMT via SyndiGate.info Rate Article: Facebook Twitter Google+ Linkedin Pinterest Delicious Stumbleupon Digg Reddit Al Sadd team Abdullah al Berik, Al Sadd Club Team Manager, said that facing UAE's Al Wasl in the fifth round of the AFC Champions League group stage match on Monday would not be easy but he was confident about players achieving the desired result. Al Sadd and Persepolis share top spot in Group C with nine points. A win for the Wolves will automatically secure their place in the knockout stage. In their previous meeting in February in Dubai, Al Sadd won 2-1 with Baghad Bounedjah hitting the bulls' eye in stoppage time. "The game is very important to us and the players know the significance of the game, especially the impact of the result as it will guarantee our place in the next round of the competition. We would fight right from the beginning until the end of the game," Berik said. "All our games until the end of the season will be tough," he added. "There is not much left till the end of the season and all our matches are going to be either local and or Asian Champions League. We know that there are competitors who will be hard. "We recorded an important victory over Al Wasl at the start of the tournament. We will be working in the next game to confirm our strength and repeat the win to move into the second round. We are now in our best shape and hope to stay at the same level before the last match against Persepolis in Tehran," he added. Al Sadd are all set to finish second in the QNB Stars League for the second straight season and will now be focused on the Qatar Cup and Emir Cup. "We have closed the league and our focus is now just on the Champions League, the Qatar Cup and Emir Cup," the team manager said. The Jassim Bin Hamad Stadium will play host to the UAE side and Al Berik added that fans need no invitation to fill the stands. "The fans of the club do not need any invitation because we know the stadium will be full to capacity. We expect them to come and cheer us so that we can secure the maximum points." By Ikoli Victor © Copyright Qatar Tribune. All Rights Reserved. Rate Article: