Tribune News Network
Doha
Nestlé Middle East is celebrating World Water Day with updates on a new drinking- water well in Jordan, a study on the Lebanese Shouf Biosphere groundwater, and annual awareness activities across several countries in the region, conducted in support of the company's core purpose of enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future.
Events have been held for schoolchildren in Qatar, helping Nestlé meet its regional commitments to"promote healthy hydration as part of a healthy lifestyle," and to"further implement our healthy hydration awareness programmes for teachers and kids providing a better understanding of the benefits of water as key to healthy hydration."
"The United Nations estimates that by 2030 global demand for water will exceed supply by 40 percent, which is why it is more vital than ever for water stewardship initiatives to be undertaken with collaboration among the private sector, governments, and NGOs everywhere to protect water reserves and expand clean and fresh water access across communities," said Nestlé Waters Asia, Oceana & Africa Senior Vice President and Regional Business Head Lazaro Rivademar."We are working together with communities to create shared values for everyone."
This year's activities include school awareness outreaches aimed at enabling healthier and happier lives for individuals and families, done in collaboration with international NGO Project WET (Water Education for Teachers), which brings the total number of children educated about the importance of water, for healthy hydration and as a scarce resource, across the region over the past 10 years to more than 70,000.
Helping to develop thriving and resilient communities is also being done through such collaborations, as the one with the Ministry of Water and Irrigation in Jordan, in 2017, to supply villagers with safe drinking water by providing a new well in the village of Hussainiya, about 170 Kilometers south of Amman. The well was drilled using state of the art technology. It is capable of pumping up to 120 cubic meters per hour to cover the clean water needs of over 20,000 people in the area.
Stewarding resources for future generations, another company pillar, is manifesting in the region with such activities as a monitoring study in Lebanon's Shouf Mountains, done over two years in collaboration between the Shouf Biosphere Reserve and Nestlé Waters. Its results, announced in late 2017, found the area's overall groundwater balance to be positive by around 12 million cubic meters per year, and led to the creation of a committee to tackle high impact it detected to stem from climate change and human activities.
In the Middle East, Nestlé has increased production volume by more than 60 percent since 2010. As the company continues to focus on resource efficiency and sustainability across its operations, it has achieved a 39 percent reduction in water withdrawal per tonne of product.