Asif Iqbal
Doha
The chairman of the newly opened QR1.5 billion Tawar Mall is confident the mall will entice customers, despite stiff competition from other malls.
"Yes there are several malls that have opened up in the country, but I believe that we have the right mix of retailers and entertainment faciltiy to attract high-end and budget customers," Tawar Mall Chairman Jassim Jabr Tawar al Kuwari told Qatar Tribune recently.
According to Kuwari, the mall will offer unique shopping experience and is endowed with never-before-seen attractions, a spectacular design and a distinctive look of luxury.
To add to its uniqueness, Kuwari said the mall is the first in the country to have an indoor traditional souq on its premises.
"This modern yet traditional concept engages the guest to indulge in its vintage ambiance and makes them feel nostalgic. It's a first indoor traditional souq for any mall in the country which will highlight local traditions through a varied range of small shops built to showcase a real souq," Kuwari added.
The Tawar Mall chairman further said that to support the local economy, it is giving priority to Qatari businesses the opportunity to showcase their offerings at the mall.
"We, therefore encourage our local community, to visit our mall and support their local business owners," he added.
Regarding the occupancy at the mall, Kuwari said,"Currently the mall has 73 percent occupancy and with more retails outlets expected to open soon the occupancy will go higher."
Speaking about the brands that have opened their outlets in the mall, Kuwari said Tawar Mall has a large retail selection of fashion, sports, gadgets and department stores, in addition to a big family entertainment area.
He said the hypermarket experience has been redefined in the mall with the supermarket giant Spar opening its largest store in Qatar.
Kuwari further said the mall will have a free jumping play area for all ages which will be the largest trampoline park in the Middle East.
Regarding other attractions at the mall, he said Sports Corner has launched its first sports interactive store in the Middle East, which is also the largest flagship store in Qatar.
Kuwari claimed that the mall has a diverse mix of over 300+ stores, and a collection of luxury retailers and is also the first shopping mall to offer a smart mobile application that will provide customers with necessary assistance towards shopping and parking.
"The mall is also the first-of-its-kind to offer customers three dining areas; a food court, a fine dining area, and rooftop cafes and lounges," Kuwari added.
The mall also has an outdoor musical water fountain, an indoor fountain, and a boutique hotel of 122 rooms.