Tribune News Network
DOHA
Defending champion Saeed al Sulaiti and title-challenger Mashel al Naimi will take the Qatar Superstock 600 crown fight to the end after sharing the victories in the fourth round at the Losail International Circuit on Saturday.
Sulaiti clinched the first race and he was followed by Nasser al Malki and Naimi in third place. Young Qatar's Abdullah al Qubaisi had an amazing performance leading during the first seven laps but unfortunately, he had a problem with the gear box and ended in fourth place. Hungarian rider Balint Kovacs was fifth.
Essa al Mutawa won the first race in the QSTK Trophy with Soud al Thani in second place and Jassim al Thani in third place.
During the first lap in the the second race, Soud al Thani crashed in Turn 6 and the race was red-flagged. After the restart of the race with 10 laps only, Naimi pushed from the beginning and led during the first five laps.
In the sixth lap, Sulaiti overtook Naimi and hit the front. However, he fell in Turn 15 in the penultimate lap. He was able to rejoin the race but Naimi raced away to post his victory to lead Sulaiti on the top of the standings by a mere point.
Nasser al Malki finished again in second place and Qubaisi got third.
In the QSTK Trophy the second race winner was Jassim al Thani and Essa al Mutawa finished second. The Kuwaiti rider Mohammad al Zaidan ended in third.
Sulaiti was happy with his win the first race but disappointed with the result in the second race."In the first race, I was not expecting this result as I had a bad day yesterday during the practices trying to find the right setup in these conditions and it was tough so I did some changes today and it was better.
"In the second race, I had a good start and I know that Mashel will be strong with new tires. In the middle of the race I caught up with him but unfortunately in Corner 15, I lost the front. I am not happy with the crash, the second of the season, but still there are some points and have the chance to come back," Sulaiti said.
For Mashel al Naimi, the weekend was very good as he is heading the points table."In the first race, I had a problem with my arm and I tried to stay in the front group but it was not possible after the start. Later I pushed and I managed to be in second position but in the last lap I couldn't brake and control the bike so Nasser passed me and I finished third," Naimi commented.
"I tried to push from the first lap in the second race after the restart and I felt better with the bike as I put more pressure on the tyers. After four laps I had a problem with the tyres and I slowed half a second and it was when Saeed passed me. Overall I am very happy with the results, I am again leading the championship," Naimi said.
Nasser al Malki was very lucky to finish the second race in second place as in the third lap he lost the slider and the clutch. He rode the bike without knowing the angles."It was difficult but good experience for me. I am very happy to finish second and happy for this result," Malki said.
Trophies were presented by Abdulrazak al Kuwari, QMMF General Secretary, and Juan Baquero, CEO Losail Circuit Sports Club. The fifth round of Qatar Superstock Championship will take place on April 6 and 7.