Satyendra Pathak
Doha
In a bid to highlight the importance of Qatar as an ancient gateway between East and West and as a key modern day facilitator of global trade, Katara Cultural Village is all set to host the Silk Road Festival in October this year.
Katara Cultural Village has partnered with Innovations Unlimited Middle East to bring the first Qatar Silk Road Festival to light.
Today the Silk Road is coming back to life under a multi-trillion dollar initiative from China, called One Belt One Road, to propel globalisation.
The 10-day Qatar Silk Road Festival, which is slated to begin on October 18, will demonstrate Qatar's support to One Belt One Road Initiative.
Innovations Unlimited Managing Director Amr Belal told Qatar Tribune that as many as 11 countries including China, Pakistan, Iran, Oman and Turkey will participate in the festival showcasing Qatar's trade relations and close ties with countries of the traditional Silk Road.
"We are seeing a continuous modernisation of trade and borders to support modern day trade requirements. The trade festival will provide a platform for embossing and sponsoring companies to share ideas and take a very inclusive and collaborative approach to the subject of 21st century trade," Belal said.
The trade that occurred along what became known as the Silk Road was about more than just the exchange of goods, he said adding the movement of people across countries created tremendous cultural and intellectual exchange, understanding of which is still fundamental to how cross-business is done today.
It is also a reminder of the modern trade routes which shape all countries involved and the success and importance of those ties, he said the festival would also highlight the ingrained understanding of how other countries and cultures evolved and influenced today.
A high-level global investment conference to be participated by trade ministers of various countries would also be organised as part of the festival, he said.
The conference, Belal said, will see discussions on various topics concerning global trade. The panel session on 'Qatar as a hub for international relationship strengthening and trade development' will feature ambassadors of all the countries participating in the festival.
Another panel session on 'Transport and communications technologies and services essential to facilitating efficient and cost-effective international trade' will have speakers from the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MOTC), Qatar Airways, Ooredoo, DHL and Gulf Warehousing Company (GWC).
The conference will also witness networking amongst senior figures of some of the key countries of today's Silk Road, advisors and supporters who facilitate today's trading platforms, Belal said.