Comments 
Qatar is ruled by the Al Thani royal family. The Emir, HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, came to power on 25 June 2013 after his father, the Father Emir, HH Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, stepped down. In Qatar, the Emir is the ruler of the country. Rule is hereditary with power transferred from father to son. If there is no son available, power is transferred to the person whom the Emir chooses within the Al Thani family. The Emir is head of the constitutional authorities, holding both legislative and executive powers. The Emir appoints the prime minister and ministers. The Council of Ministers or Cabinet, the supreme executive authority in the country, assist in implementing the general policies of the State. A 16-member Advisory Council debates economic, political and administrative matters referred to it by the Cabinet. The current Cabinet, which includes the 16 ministers of Qatar, is as follows: HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani HE Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani HE Dr Khalid bin Mohamed Al Attiyah HE Ahmad bin Abdullah Al Mahmoud HE Dr Mohammad bin Saleh Al Sada HE Ghaith bin Mubarak Al Kuwari HE Ali Sharif Al Emadi HE Hassan Lahdan Al Mohannadi HE Mohammed Abdul Wahed Al Hammadi HE Dr Issa bin Saad Al Jafali Al Naimi HE Mohamed bin Abdullah Al Rumaihi HE Dr Hanan Mohamed Al Kuwari HE Ahmed bin Jassim Al Thani HE Jassim bin Saif Al Sulaiti HE Saleh Mohammad Al Nabit HE Salah bin Ghanem Al Ali 
Cabinet of Qatar 
Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani 
*Minister of Foreign Affairs and Deputy Prime Minister HE Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani (also appointed Deputy previously in charge of international cooperation at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs) 
*Minister of State for Defense Affairs and Deputy Prime Minster HE Dr Khalid bin Mohamed Al Attiyah (also member of the Council of Ministers and previously Foreign Minister) 
Minister of State for the Council of Ministers Affairs HE Ahmad bin Abdullah Al Mahmoud 
Minister of Energy and Industry HE Mohammed Saleh Al Sada 
Minister of Awqaf and Islamic Affairs HE Ghaith bin Mubarak Al Kuwari 
Minister of Finance HE Ali Sharif Al Emadi 
Minister of Justice HE Hassan Lahdan Al Mohannadi 
Minister of Education and Higher Education HE Mohammed Abdul Wahed Al Hammadi 
Minister of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs HE Dr Issa bin Saad Al Jafali Al Nuaimi 
*Minister of Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohamed bin Abdullah Al Rumaihi 
*Minister of Public Health HE Dr Hanan Mohamed Al Kuwari 
*Minister of Culture and Sports HE Salah bin Ghanem Al Ali 
Minister of Economy and Commerce HE Ahmed bin Jassim Al Thani 
*Minister of Transport and Communications HE Jassim bin Saif Al Sulaiti 
Minister of Development Planning and Statistics HE Saleh Mohammad Al Nabit 
Minister of Youth and Sports HE Salah bin Ghanem Al Ali 
*Emiri Order No 2 of 2016 appointed HE Major General Hamad bin Ali Al Attiyah as advisor to the Emir for Defense Affairs , with the rank of prime minister (the Emir holds the post of Defence Minister) 
Emiri Order No 2 of 2016 
In January 2016 The Emir, HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani issued Emiri Order No 1 of 2016 amending the formation of the Council of Ministers, replacing the foreign minister and merging some ministries. In a speech made at the time, the Emir said that Qatar needed to diversify its income and he urged an end to corruption. He said citizens should not ‘fear or panic’ about the tumbling price of hydrocarbons. He continued: ‘As citizens your responsibilities are greater due to the low oil prices; however, citizens’ welfare and way of life should not be affected by the situation.’ Seven changes to the Cabinet were announced as several ministries were merged (Indicated above with *). 
Two Deputy Prime Ministers 
In November 2017, the Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani issued Emiri order No. 4 of 2017, appointing Minister of State for Defense Affairs HE Dr Khalid bin Mohammed Al Attiyah and Foreign Minister HE Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani as Deputies to the Prime Minister, in addition to their posts. 
Ministry of Education and Higher Education 
As well as the merger of some ministries, the Supreme Education Council was abolished and the Ministry of Education and Higher Education was established. State-run Independent schools are expected to see major structural changes – the term ‘Independent school’ may be cancelled and facilities may remain as boys and girls schools. The new ministry has confirmed strategies and work plans set by the SEC will continue. 
The Supreme Council of Health (SCH) was also abolished. The new Ministry of Public Health, which has taken over the responsibilities of the SCH, will also regulate the Primary Healthcare Corporation (PHCC) that runs the primary health centres across the country, and Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) that manages the public hospitals. HMC’s Director General will be under the supervision of the Minister. The PHCC will continue providing integrated primary healthcare services according to the ministry’s regulations and standards. 
Copyright © Marhaba Information Guide. Reproduction of material from Marhaba Information Guide’s book or website without written permission is strictly prohibited. Using Marhaba Information Guide’s material without authorisation constitutes as plagiarism as well as copyright infringement.