The Association of Structural Engineers of the Philippines Regional Coordinating Committee Qatar (ASEP RCCQ) successfully concluded its 4th Technical Summit held at City Centre Rotana Doha.
Around 82 practising civil-structural engineers and designers from all over the country took part in the two-day event with the theme 'Application of Technology in the Advancement of Structural Engineering Practice'.
It was graced by Philippine Labor Attache to Qatar David Des Dicang and Benjamin Celedio Jr, Third Secretary and Vice Consul at the Philippine Embassy.
Among the highlights of the summit was the installation and oath-taking of Alden P Cayaga as ASEP Regional Coordinator. Newly upgraded and new members of ASEP Mark Lepiten, Enger Alingasa and Renato Torres also took oath.
The summit featured a number of lectures aimed at updating members about the latest technology and developments in the structural engineering industry.
ASEP Vice-President Gilbert B Magbutay and ASEP past president Frederick Francis M Sison led this year's roster of speakers as they presented topics on 'Structural Retrofitting of Existing Buildings' and 'Seismic Instrumentation for Monitoring Structural Health' respectively. They came all the way from the Philippines to take part in this event.
The featured topics were 'Applications of First Principles of Solid Mechanics in the Design of Steel Members Using Finite Elements Analysis' conducted by Jeffrey Cimagala, 'A Closer Look at Post-Tensioned Floor System' presented by John Mark Bunagan, and 'Structural Design Fundamentals of High-Mast Lighting Tower' by Leodegario Porral Jr.
Another industry expert Vicente Noynay delivered a talk on 'Formwork Design Analysis Respecting Concrete Pressure Behavior & Various Loads'; Armando Tagtag conducted a session on 'Non-Linear Construction Stage Analysis of Multi-Storey Buildings', while Francis Sison talked about 'Seismic Instrumentation for Monitoring Structural Health'.
Other topics discussed were 'Structural Assessment of Existing Buildings and Advances in Retrofitting Techniques' by Gilbert Magbutay, 'Common Design Flaws and Its Impact on Structural Elements' by Mark Lepiten, 'Fundamentals of Post-Installed Rebar: Theories and Design Using Adhesive Anchor System' by Michael Manicad, and a video presentation on 'Advancement in Structural Engineering and BIM Collaboration' by John Paul Dela Rosa.
ASEP RCCQ is a specialist group, which is currently opening its doors to qualified Filipino practising civil-structural engineers and designers in Qatar.
For inquiries, visit: www.aseprccqatar.org. -Report by Ailyn Agonia