Asif Iqbal
Doha
For Turkey, which attracted more than $190 billion in foreign direct investments (FDI) in the last 15 years, Qatar is a potential force multiplier that can accelerate its FDI inflow.
At present, the total FDI from Qatar to Turkey stands at $5 billion. Turkey expects it to increase by $3 billion every year from now, according to a top official of Turkey's investment agency.
"Given the strong political and business relationship that Qatar and Turkey enjoy, we feel the current FDI from Qatar does not match the potential. I think Qatari investors can easily bring in $3 billion annually in various sectors," President of Turkey Prime Ministry Investment Support and Promotion Agency (Ispat) Arda Armut told Qatar Tribune in an interview.
"This is a great time in Turkey's history. With its booming economy, Turkey holds tremendous potential with numerous investment opportunities for Qatari investors in sectors such as petrochemical, information technology, food processing and real estate," he added.
A lot of Qataris, who having already invested in Turkey and benefitted from their endeavours, are looking to diversify their investments further into other sectors as well, Armut said
"To provide assistance to Qatari investors before, during and after their entry in Turkish market, Ispat has set up an office in Doha, offering an extensive range of services to investors through a one-stop-shop approach and ensuring that they obtain optimal results from their investments in Turkey," he said.
Doha office is Ipsat's third in the region. Besides, it has a network of local consultants in countries such as Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Singapore, South Korea, Spain, the UK, and the US.
Urging more Qatari investors to consider Turkey as an investment destination, Armut said the country's value has been appreciated by foreign investors, which is reflected in its increasing FDI inflow. In 2003, he said, FDI to Turkey was about $15 billion. But from 2003 to 2017, it increased to $190 billion, he added.
"While Turkey attracted approximately $1 billion in FDI per year on average between 1992 and 2002, it has been attracting an average annual FDI of more than $12.5 billion since 2003."