Malek Helali
Doha
QATAR has embarked on a unique pioneering journey to transform the country in a short span of a single generation towards achieving a knowledge-based economy, according to Dr Javaid Sheikh, Dean of Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar (WCM-Q).
"Qatar is leading the entire region and taking it back to its golden age - between the 8th and 13th century - when the region was the centre of intellectual discourse and scientific discoveries in mathematics, physics, astronomy and medicine," he added.
This came during the 10th anniversary celebrations of WCM-Q's foundation program held at the Hamad Bin Khalifa University Student Center in Doha on Wednesday. WCM-Q's foundation program is designed to bring in Qatari students and prepare them to face the university's rigorous curriculum, according to Dr Sheikh.
Dr Sheikh noted that thanks tothe profound generosity of HH Sheikha Moza bint Nasser and HH Sheikha Hind bint Hamad al Thani in supporting WCM-Q and its sister academic institutions, Education City is now widely regarded as the hub of creative ideas and the centre of innovation in the country.
Qatar Foundation (QF) is leading the establishment of a pioneering ecosystem including a close interaction of government, industry, academia and commercial enterprise for the establishment of a knowledge-based economy and WCM-Q is proud to be part of this historic initiative and aspires to be the best not only in the region, but across the world, according to Dr Sheikh.
WCM-Q's dean added that his institution created a platform attracting international graduates in the health sector to serve Qatar's leadership journey in collaboration with other institutions in the country such as Hamad Medical Corporation, Sidra Medicine, University of Calgary and Qatar University.
According to Dr Sheikh, WCM-Q is working on becoming a pillar of Qatari society through its commitment to community service and transforming the health and wellbeing of younger generations in Qatar.
Dr Rachid Bendriss, Assistant Dean for Student Recruitment, Outreach and Foundation Programs, said that WCM-Q's foundation program nurtures future generations of doctors contributing to the achievements of Qatar National Vision 2030. He noted that this year's foundation class is the largest to date since the program's establishment in 2007.
Dr Bendriss added that for the first time students can earn university credits for the courses they are taking in the foundation program.