Tribune News Network
Doha
FUJIFILM Corporation has announced the launch of the Fujifilm X-H1 camera, the highest performance camera in the X series range of mirrorless cameras, known for its superior image quality created using Fujifilm's proprietary colour reproduction technology.
The X-H1, with a newly-designed robust and durable body, incorporates a range of extremely useful features that support shooting in various scenarios demanded by professional photographers and videographers.
The X-H1 is the first X series model to include the latest 5-axis in-body image stabilisation (IBIS), which has a maximum of 5.5 stops as well as a flicker reduction mode which enhances the quality of indoor sports photography.
In combination with the existing Fujinon XF lens range, the camera allows the use of the 5-axis image stabilisation in excess of 5-stops, with the exception of some lenses.
The camera is also compatible with a range of other interchangeable lenses due for release later this year. These include the MKX18-55mmT2.9 and MKX50-135mm T2.9 professional cinema lenses which incorporate the X mount (scheduled for release in May 2018), the XF200mmF2 R LM OIS WR, a wide aperture single-focus telephoto lens, and XF8-16mmF 2.8 R WR, designed to meet the needs of scenery or landscape photographers, both of which are scheduled for release by the end of 2018.
The new camera and lens combinations will provide outstanding image production and will be ideal for fast action sports photography.
The first internal in-body image stabilisation (IBIS) system to feature in an X series camera, harnesses three axial accelerometers, three axial Gyro sensors, and a specially developed dual-processor. Combined, this achieves the high speed of approximately 10,000 calculations per second. When unified with compensating mechanisms, results in uncompromising image quality and precision with performance as described below.
The following technical breakthroughs have been developed to support this high precision performance:
A laser measurement device is used during the process of manufacturing the image stabilisation unit, controlling component flatness and position with twice the precision of standard components.
The assembly process also includes inspection and adjustment of each individual camera to ensure that even when image stabilization is used, the parallel position of the sensor is achieved with micro-order accuracy equivalent to previous models.