Tribune News Network
Doha
Spa and wellbeing specialists ESPA are now in Doha, making it one of the largest spas in the Middle East, offering a myriad of treatments and facilities is an oasis of luxury and indulgence.
Designed by internationally acclaimed Dutch designer, Marcel Wanders, ESPA Mondrian Doha features separate spas for men and women, a heat experience garden and a traditional Turkish Hammam, a private VIP suite, a spa within a spa ideal for couples or small groups wishing to maintain privacy. The ESPA combines striking design elements with unparalleled treatments and exceptional service in the beauty and wellness world.
ESPA Founder & Chairwoman Susan Harmsworth MBE said,"We are delighted to be partnering with Mondrian Doha and working with Marcel Wanders in bringing this incredible SPA experience exclusively to Doha. With such a diverse design, there's simply no other spa out there like it! Marrying the concepts of a secret garden and a souk plaza with our renowned bespoke ESPA treatments and service, this striking spa offers exquisite and unparalleled wellbeing experiences in Doha a truly unique experience, and we couldn't be more excited!"
ESPA offers over 40 signature treatments such as the Mondrian Moments, which unites the best of middle-eastern spa therapies with modern western practices, and ensures the most memorable results. ESPA supreme signature treatment, known as the Vitality Ritual, lasts 120 minutes and includes youth-reviving eye treatment to refine and brighten the skin. Along with personalised massages ESPA also offers firm favourites, The Balinese and Deep Muscle Release (hot stone therapy) with a unique ESPA twist. Expecting mums can relax and unwind with the Mum-to-be massage.
The Hammam at ESPA exudes luxury and offers signature experiences which include the Ultimate Hammam Journey, a 120-minute experience to cleanse, smooth, hydrate and nourish the skin, clear and awaken the mind, and banish muscular stress and tension, or, guests can enjoy the Glow Hammam Journey, 60 mins of a deep cleansing.
Unique to the Spa is the ESPA Dermalux'ae treatment which is an intensely rejuvenating facial which visibly reduces wrinkles and fine lines, firms skin tone and dramatically enhances radiance from the first treatment. This safe and pain-free treatment combines non-invasive LED light technology, advanced contouring and lifting facial massage techniques plus ESPA's powerfully effective natural skincare.
Guests can indulge all their senses with the ESPA thermal facilities which include heated floors throughout, Heat Souk Experience, ice fountain, wet and dry steam rooms and body jet showers and the Pearl Dome for relaxing.
Catering to male and female wellbeing needs, ESPA offers separate treatment areas for both men and women but also treatment rooms for couples. The female spa exudes femininity and has been designed with the delicate nature of women in Qatar in mind. The male spa oozes masculinity in a traditional sense, with a design that has been inspired by the strong and vibrant urban souks of the region.