Tribune News Network
Doha
Bedaya Centre for Entrepreneurship and Career Development (Bedaya Centre), a joint initiative by Qatar Development Bank and Silatech, is taking part in the first edition of Qatar Self Sufficiency Exhibition (QSSE 2018), which will be held from April 1 to 3 at the Doha Convention & Exhibition Center (DCEC), Bedaya announced in a press statement on Saturday.
During the event, a task force from Bedaya Centre will provide an overview of the services provided by the Centre such as workshops in various sectors and consultations for entrepreneurs who are constantly seeking to reach their goals that helps support the economy of Qatar, the statement added.
The Bedaya team will also provide information regarding bazaars that the Centre participates in and the projects and startup businesses that Bedaya Center contributed to its success and its achievements to complete its objectives.
Moreover, personal consultations for entrepreneurs will also be offered to visitors during the exhibitions.
Bedaya's participation in the three-day event is in line with its objectives to connect entrepreneurs with various entities in the country to present their ideas and contract them to benefit from their projects to support Qatari products in the first place and to motivate them to continue giving and delivering, the statement said.
Reem al Sowaidi, General Manager of Bedaya Centre, said,"I would like to take this opportunity to thank the management of QSSE for providing us the opportunity to participate in the first and largest event of its kind in the region, where all sectors will have the opportunity to communicate and meet under one roof.
"We are working constantly to support and encourage entrepreneurs by facilitating all ways of communication with large companies and institutions. We are therefore working with all national institutions and private initiatives to bring together entrepreneurs under one umbrella."
She added,"Thankfully, in a short period of time, we have become the first destination for youth in Qatar when it comes to the field of entrepreneurship and professional development. Today, we renew our commitment and cement our position by participating at the Qatar Self-Sufficiency Exhibition."