Tribune News Network
QATAR Airways often comes out with imaginative ways to drive home its message. The airline's services and products for passengers are innovative and so are its offerings of messages and communications for people in general. Its message for promotion of environment through a head-to-head race between Qatar Airways' latest Boeing 787 Dreamliner and Airbus A350 aircraft with Formula E car at the Hamad International Airport is breathtaking.
The airline video available on YouTube keeps the viewers on the edge of the seat and remain glued to television sets and other devices while the watching it. The very idea of a race between latest generation of passenger aircraft and fastest cars is thrilling. Watching the race between ground and land speed machines on an airport tarmac adds to the thrill.
The video shows two races. In the first, a state-of the-art Airbus350 is shown taking off at the HIA. The pilot and co-pilots in the cockpit can be seen, perhaps, in anticipation of a motor car racing with aircraft on a parallel track. As the aircraft is speeding to take off, a Formula E car driver can be seen in the cockpit adjusting to race. The two speed demons race until the aircraft becomes airborne. In the second race, a Boeing Dreamliner 787 touches down as the Formula E car driver races with the aircraft. Formula E driver Jerome D'Ambrosio was behind the steering wheel in both races.
The suspense, excitement and thrill of the race come with a profound message about promotion of clean energy and environment. As Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar al Baker observed on the occasion,"Qatar Airways always tries to be ahead of the curve when it comes to its environmental credentials. .. We have chosen the future of motor racing and Formula E with their latest environmentally-friendly technology, which they combine into this exciting sport."
The aircraft races with motor car were held to celebrate the Qatar Airways' partnership with Formula E, which the two organisations had signed earlier have extended. Qatar Airways is the 'Official Title Sponsor' of Paris E-Prix and New York City E-Prix. It is also the 'Official Airline' for Rome and Berlin races. Founder and CEO Formula E, Alejandro Agag echoed the sentiment of Baker when he said,"It is great to be working with a partner who shares our values in sustainability and Qatar Airways is a global brand leading this charge."
The aircraft-motor car race at HIA will go a long way in promoting electronic vehicles and clean energy that powers the cars. Qatar Airways' message is powerful, timely and exciting.