Rochelle Zonnenberg
Having recently celebrated Mother's Day, I thought of writing on motherhood. As a fairly new mother of a year-and-half-old toddler and expecting a baby girl soon, I know I've only just begun my journey of great triumphs, trials, and tantrums.
It is a very special feeling being a mother and I am proud to be one. But I often wonder, about the amount of time I would have on hand and all the things I could achieve if I wasn't one.
Again, don't get me wrong, I absolutely love being a mother and I now know and fully understand the meaning of my own mother's words "Someday you will understand when you become a mother yourself"!
All the tough times, the lessons we learn, the mannerisms we adopt, the person we become, prepare us for this great challenge and responsibility of raising a child. It may be the only job in the world where payment is made in tight hugs and kisses but God knows it is the most rewarding of them all.
On Mother's Day we get presents, gifts, wishes, and cards in appreciation for all our efforts. All the love shown towards us is great and very uplifting but I think it's important for us mothers to remember to take time to reward ourselves.
Surely, we could all sneak in some me-time daily, weekly, monthly, or yearly, couldn't we? And as we do this in our own way, we must all make sure that we reflect on our own mental health and well-being and thus, treat ourselves appropriately.
In all our responsibilities and duties we often forget to make ourselves a priority. But it is only a happy, sane mind and body that can give and love to its fullest potential.
Following my mantra of self-love and in preparation of a new chapter, I decided to gift myself a special Prenatal Massage at the Four Seasons Spa Doha. It is one of those things that should maybe be an absolute must-do for all mothers-to-be, as our bodies prepare to go through one of the most trying times of nature and evolution.
The techniques and pressure used at this special therapy were gentle and yet relaxing. It also involved lots of pillows for optimum comfort and support. I was honestly left wanting to check into that massage room for rest of the day just so I could catch up on some much-needed rest and relaxation.
As a pregnant mother of a toddler, on a mission to explore the world, my mind and body are exhausted by the end of each day. This special treat recharged me for the new challenge to come, which may take all my strength and patience to live up to. It is, however, in these small tiny moments of rewarding myself that I find the mindfulness to conquer motherhood and all of its trials and tribulations.
The author is a blogger, specialising in lifestyle and Travel
Follow her on Instagram & Facebook @questandmark