IANS
Though proclaimed as a sequel, Baaghi 2 is an independent film having nothing to do with its prequel, the 2016 released Baaghi. This action thriller, made by the same producers and having the same leading man sharing the same screen name - Ronnie, is a far cry from its theme ” The Rebel.
In fact, this is an action-packed investigative story where an army captain - Ranveer Pratap Singh aka Ronnie (Tiger Shroff) helps his ex-flame Neha Salgaonkar (Disha Patani) find her daughter Rhea who is kidnapped after being brutally assaulted.
Ronnie does everything he can to find Neha's daughter. But why Rhea is kidnapped is a convoluted story that one must endure.
Set and shot in Goa, Kashmir and the jungles of the Far East passed off as Goa, the tale is oft-seen with flavours of the late 1980s and early 1990s.
Narrated in a non-linear manner with flashbacks, the romance of the lead pair is encapsulated in the song -"O saathi".
The writing overall is a tad unimpressive. The characters are lazily crafted, especially Captain Ranveer Pratap Singh's.
We are told he is a one man army who loved Neha, but what about his family? How did he land in Neha's college ” such questions are left unanswered.
The narrative starts off on a feeble note but hooks you despite the gaping holes, but the way the plot leads to the climax is commendable.
Tiger Shroff is charismatic. As usual, he excels in displaying his martial arts skills. In some scenes, he highlights the character's innocence with the right nuances.
Disha Patani is a capable actress. Together, they make a cute pair, but unfortunately they share a few awkward onscreen moments that speak poorly not of their histrionics but of the director's impatience to can the shots.
Of the supporting cast, Deepak Dobriyal as Usman the garage owner, Randeep Hooda as DCP Lohar Singh Dhool aka LSD and Manoj Bajpayee as his senior DIG of Police and Prateik Babbar as Neha's druggie brother-in-law Sunny, are brilliant.
Jacqueline Fernandez in an item number, the remake of the famed"Ek do Teen", is a disappointment. Though well-choreographed, she has not been able to elevate the iconic number. Her moves are in no way graceful. The number seems like a desperate attempt to revive her sagging career.
On the technical front, the film is astutely mounted. Production design and camera work are excellent.
The action sequences though well-packaged and canned brilliantly are ludicrous, especially the sequence in the climax. They fall short on the relatability factor. The background score is loud.
Overall, Baaghi 2 is a few notches better than its predecessor, which is saying a lot.