Malek Helali
Doha
THE blockade against the State of Qatar has left many Muslim pilgrims of Qatar devastated, questioning to the very core the unjust decision taken by Saudi government and its leadership who happens to be the custodian of the two Holy Mosques in Islam.
Several residents of Qatar enquired about the travel conditions to Saudi Arabia for pilgrimage and told Qatar Tribune how their wish to perform Umrah during the Holy Month of Ramadan has been directly affected by the current GCC crisis.
A young Sudanese expatriate said that he felt immensely disappointed to find out that he cannot perform Umrah from Qatar as he had planned for the second consecutive year."It is very frustrating to see the Saudi authorities' discrimination against Qatar's residents especially in such a sensitive matter related to our religion that we share with the Saudis," he said.
He added that being born and raised in Qatar, it would be much more difficult for him to perform Umrah from Sudan, especially that he is not familiar with the procedures or the costs of this alternative.
A Nigerian expatriate, who had performed Umrah from Qatar on four separate occasions, said:"I visited Saudi Arabia for Umrah four times in the past. Now, even though I want to visit again as a pilgrim during the Holy Month of Ramadan, I am unaware of the new routes after this totally unnecessary blockade imposed on the brotherly country Qatar."
"It is actually much more convenient for me and my fellow Muslim brothers and sisters from Qatar to visit Saudi Arabia directly through land border or the air route. Now, if I plan to perform Umrah from my home country, it would definitely cost more and would take more time," he said.
"I also can't really say about the visa procedure because it may require sending my passport home, particularly since we don't seem to have any Umrah visa procedure available at the embassy of Saudi Arabia in Doha," he added, while painfully stressing,"This blockade has severely affected my plans of performing Umrah during the holy month."
An Indian expatriate who performed Umrah with his parents from Qatar said:"I had visited Saudi Arabia for Umrah a few years ago. I had accompanied my parents from Qatar and things were very easy from here. However, things have changed completely since the blockade. I had plans to perform Umrah from Qatar during this year's Holy Month of Ramadan and have absolutely no idea how to go about it."
He continued:"Now, from my home country, India, we have many steps to follow. The procedure will take much more time and I'll have to stay there away from my workplace in Doha. Earlier, from Qatar, we could complete our pilgrimage in two weeks visiting the holy cities of Mecca and Medina. Whoever is behind this blockade decision has taken a very wrong step without thinking about the Muslims at all. They have not only put a blockade on the people of Qatar but also on the Muslim pilgrims from Qatar."
Another Indian expatriate who had performed Umrah several times from Qatar said that such a blockade is not a healthy sign for brotherly Muslim nations and neighbours."I wanted to perform Umrah during the Holy Month of Ramadan. However, I don't know what I will do now as there is no way I can travel from Qatar through the Abu Samra land border. Travel and tour operators in Doha also don't have much idea about alternative arrangements. The authorities in Saudi Arabia should allow Qataris and expatriates to perform Umrah without any restrictions and inconvenience."