Tribune News Network
Doha
THE first version of TEDxCCQ conferences, which was supervised by a group of CCQ faculty members and students, was launched at Katara Cultural Village on Saturday.
The conference featured 13 speakers who shared their experiences and inspirational stories with the audience.
The organising committee chose 'Building Bridges' as the theme of the first version of their conference. This theme was actually inspired by the fact that Qatar is building bridges literally and metaphorically where architects, engineers and urban planners are building far and wide throughout the country in preparation for Qatar's National Vision 2030 and FIFA World Cup 2022.
On the other hand, communities and organisations are working on bridging the gaps of communication with many different countries around the globe. Based on this fact, TEDxCCQ organisers believe that the theme will be the symbol of the connection between the past and the future, nationalism and globalization and many other aspects that could be used to build bridges reaching the world.
The 13 speakers were divided into three groups. The first group included Dr Ibrahim al Naimi, Jacqueline Bird, Sarah Inkpen, Kerry Suek and Hassan Abdel-Aziz who presented their talks in the first session. While in the second session, Dr Mohamed al Jefairi, Aqeel Ahmad, Prof. Marios Katsioloudes, Mufeed Ahmed, Dr Michael King and Aisha al Kuwari presented their talks. The conference reached its end with three inspirational speakers: Rohit Bassi, Dr Radi Abouelhassan and Ahmed al Maadheed.
Dr Naimi, the president of CCQ, said:"Few people are capable of giving back to the society. Back in the days, I was supposed to work in the field of petroleum and mining because of my degree in chemistry. However, I chose to get into the field of education trying to give back to my beloved country."
"The idea of launching the Community College of Qatar was very promising, but it needed commitment and resolve to bring it to reality. With its establishment, the challenge was to make CCQ an effective educational institution in the Qatari society. It started with an idea that rapidly became a reality, which required persistence and commitment to our vision," he added.
"The CCQ was launched with the purpose of creating academically and practically specialised generation in order to fulfil the rapidly evolving needs of the Qatari labour market. From its first days in 2010, CCQ has accomplished a lot of achievements and today it is the fastest growing institution in Qatar offering a number of associate and bachelor degree programmes."