Tribune News Network
Doha
THE Qatar Financial Centre (QFC), one of the world's leading and fastest-growing onshore business and financial centres, observed World Planting Day at Msheireb Downtown Doha on Thursday, (March 29). This initiative falls under Busmah, QFC's employee engagement programme.
Volunteers from all QFC entities were eager to contribute to a greener, healthier community as they planted the first QFC seeds in the organic gardens of Msheireb, part of Msheireb Downtown Doha's residential area. Upon harvest of the vegetable seeds, they will be used for the benefit of the construction workers on the Msheireb project, which is the site of QFC's future home.
In addition, QFC observed World Earth Hour on Saturday (March 24) by turning off the lights in QFC towers 1 and 2 from 8:30pm to 9:30pm. This traditional practice is observed in Qatar and across the world, with QFC participating annually.
Yousef Fakhroo, Chief Marketing & Corporate Communications Officer, QFC Authority, said:"Both World Planting Day and World Earth Hour highlight the importance of environmental awareness to the future of Qatar and the entire globe. These events show the positive impact each person can have locally by planting a garden and being more conscious of energy use. Each of these individual efforts, added up, make for significant positive benefits for all of us, and QFC is proud to take part."
On her part, Noora al Rumaihi, Communication and Public Relations Manager at Msheireb Properties, said:"We are proud to stand with our partners QFC in acknowledging ways to create green gardens in Msheireb Downtown Doha. Msheireb Properties is committed to providing the community in Qatar with the most environmentally sound and prominent initiatives as part of its landmark Downtown Doha project. With sustainability at the heart of its foundations, the regeneration of Qatar's capital will be a step forward in becoming more environmentally conscious with our human footprint."
The Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programmme underscores its commitment to its ethical, social and environmental responsibilities. The CSR's two main pillars at QFC are youth education and community development. Improving the environment that we all live in is a crucial part of sustainability of the community and falls under one of our main CSR pillars.