Tribune News Network
Doha
THE Qatar Genome Programme (QGP), a member of Qatar Foundation, will host its second symposium under the theme 'Ethics, Regulations and Best Practices in Genomic Medicine'.
The symposium, held in collaboration with the Ministry of Public Health and the Research Center for Islamic Legislation and Ethics, will take place at Qatar National Convention Centre on April 29 and 30.
The QGP symposium will bring together industry experts, researchers, policy-makers and academics from Qatar and around the world to discuss a range of topics relevant to the genomics field, including governance of national genomic projects, genomic data ownership and sharing, delivery of genomic data and its integration into the national health system and bioethics.
Announcing the symposium, Professor Asmaa al Thani, Chairperson of the Qatar Genome Programme Committee and Board Vice Chairperson of Qatar Biobank, said:"Qatar Genome Programme and our stakeholders are focused on supporting critical genomic research in Qatar. We are on the path to creating a comprehensive genomic map of the country's population, which will in turn help develop personalised healthcare for the people of Qatar."
"We are delighted to be hosting genomic experts from around the world at this symposium to discuss ethical and regulatory best practices in genomic medicine. This type of collaboration and knowledge sharing is critical to the development of knowledge in the field," added Prof. al Thani.
Scientists from across the world will present their groundbreaking research and findings in the field of genetics and genomics at the symposium. Along with representatives from Qatar's biomedical research institutions, delegates will also attend from the University of Nottingham; Sarah Lawrence College in the United States; McGill University in Canada; the UK's National Health Service (NHS); national genomics projects from Singapore, Estonia and England; and the Ethics Advisory Committee for Genomics England.
Dr Said Ismail, QGP Programme Manager, said:"The symposium's program is designed to allow for greater conversation among the experts and a thorough review of the vast amount of genomics research from around the world. The presence of experts and practitioners representing prestigious institutions from around the world is what makes this event so valuable, and it will be an opportunity for local researchers and scientists to both share their discoveries and learn from their peers. We welcome everyone in the healthcare community to join us at this symposium and be part of the drive toward a healthier population in Qatar and worldwide."
To learn more about the QGP symposium, visit: 'www.qatargenome.org.qa'.