Tribune News Network
Doha
MATHAF: Arab Museum of Modern Art in Doha has dedicated part of its museum to a new display of work by Qatari artist Hana al Saadi.
On show through May 13, 2018, the installation, entitled 'Proposal for a Public Sculpture', is on view in Mathaf's Project Space, dedicated to emerging artists and curators' experimentations with new ideas and forms of presentation.
Presented by Qatar Museums (QM) under the leadership of its Chairperson, HE Sheikha al Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani, 'Proposal for a Public Sculpture' is Hana's first solo presentation. The project invites Hana to explore experimental processes of research, production and conceptual thinking to develop a proposal for a public sculpture in Doha, literally giving Hana the space and time to develop her research around tendencies of self-expression and social rituals, and the role of public art in Doha.
Curated by Laura Barlow, Curator at Mathaf, 'Proposal for a Public Sculpture' takes the shape of the artist's studio, featuring a library of working documents, books and recorded interviews, a display of working drawings and sculpture maquettes and a meeting point for conversations and debate.
The installation will evolve over the course of its three-month lifespan through dialogue with the Mathaf teams, the public, creative and spatial practitioners and academics through open forum discussions.
At the completion of the project on in May, Hana will hold a public talk with Mathaf Curator Laura Barlow to discuss the project process and research highlights.
Commenting on the project, Abdellah Karroum, Director of Mathaf, said:"Hana al Saadi is a promising emerging contemporary artist, educated and graduated in Qatar. Her art practice is very innovative and bringing discussion about our societies' heritage and aspirations. We are proud to dedicate Mathaf's Project Space to emerging artists to develop original works in collaboration with curators, a key part of our strategy in making museums contributing to nurture and support artists throughout their careers."
Hana holds a BFA in Painting and Printmaking from VCU-Qatar and recently took part in the largest exhibition of art from Qatar titled 'Contemporary Art Qatar' in Berlin's legendary Kraftwerk space.