Tribune News Network
Doha
A NEW partnership between the TEES Gas and Fuels Research Center based at Texas A&M University at Qatar and the Texas A&M Energy Institute will focus on aligning the research, education and training interests of both organisations for mutual benefit.
The partnership will help consolidate and coordinate research efforts and activities in the areas of natural gas production and monetisation at Texas A&M's main campus in College Station, Texas, the USA.
"Texas A&M University has played a critical role in the energy future by leading the oil era in the United States, with many impacts globally," said Nimir O. Elbashir, director of the TEES Gas and Fuels Research Center."The partnership between the TEES Gas and Fuels Research Center and the Texas A&M Energy Institute provides an excellent opportunity for the university to now lead in the shale oil and gas era. This partnership will expand the portfolio of the GFRC's activities in supporting Qatar's gas production and processing plants."
It is anticipated that new approaches will be discovered, previously unavailable research opportunities will be presented and diverse sets of individuals will gain mastery of concepts through innovative educational programmes.
"We very much welcome this partnership," said Stratos Pistikopoulos, interim co-director and deputy director of the Texas A&M Energy Institute."This will allow us to create synergies and opportunities between our two organisations in the strategically important energy space of natural and shale gas and fuels. Further, this will strengthen the existing relationships between our Qatar campus and main campus for energy research, education and training."
The Texas A&M Energy Institute is a joint institute of Texas A&M and the Texas A&M Engineering Experiment Station (TEES). The Texas A&M Energy Institute engages student, faculty and staff researchers in the study and development of innovative technologies and policies for energy production and energy conservation. With 250 faculty affiliates across the Texas A&M University System ” along with a unique community of more than 450 doctoral students and postdoctoral fellows in the Texas A&M Energy Research Society ” the Texas A&M Energy Institute realises cutting-edge solutions through true interdisciplinary collaborations that address the complexity and challenges of the world's energy future.
The TEES Gas and Fuels Research Center is a multidisciplinary research centre that is led by Texas A&M University at Qatar and involves 31 professors from the Qatar campus and Texas A&M's main campus.