QNA
Doha
CRISES in the Middle East are threatening the stability of the countries and peaceful coexistence of peoples of various ethnic and religious components in the region, said Director of the Center for Strategic Studies Major-General Dr Hamad Mohammed al Marri.
Marri was speaking at the opening of the two-day 6th Doha Forum for Policies and Strategies on Saturday.
Organised by the Center for Strategic Studies of the Armed Forces in collaboration with the Arab Center for Research and Policy Studies, the forum is being held under the patronage of Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for Defence Affairs HE Dr Khalid bin Mohammed al Attiyah, bringing together experts, thinkers and decision-makers, as well as representatives of international and non-governmental organisations from around the world to discuss various current issues and challenges in the Middle East.
Marri said the crises that have been burning for years have turned the Middle East into a major humanitarian crisis that calls for urgent action with the spirit of international responsibility to work towards settling these conflicts and ensuring the return of the displaced and refugees to their countries, cities and villages.
He noted that there are intellectual transformations at the political, economic and military levels that should not escape the attention of centres of strategic studies, experts and intellectuals.
"At the political level, there is a rise of some right-wing political currents in Europe, Latin America and Asia. On the economic level, there is a retreat from the global trend based on freedom of trade and globalisation. On the military level, there are theoretical theses and new practical experiences that occurred at the level of the armies' doctrine, fighting, training and arming methods to confront the new patterns of wars. These changes will reflect on many of the global policies in the coming period," he said.
Marri said the Gulf crisis is one of the most important issues of this forum, describing it as a shock to everyone, including politicians, analysts or experts, stressing that it has a great negative impact on the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries.
He said the stable image of the Gulf states for decades has been shaken, after the GCC emerged as a collective force that could fill the strategic vacuum in the region after the Arab revolutions.
"This is the beginning of the great efforts about the seriousness of the crisis and the mediation led by the Emir of State of Kuwait Sheikh Sabah al Ahmad al Jaber al Sabah, stressing that despite the difficulties and obstacles encountered by the mediation, the Kuwaiti Emir made strenuous efforts to resolve the crisis."
He said the Kuwaiti mediation has received large regional and international support.
Marri also expressed concerns about Israeli repeated attacks on Al-Aqsa Mosque as well as President Trump's decision to transfer the US embassy to Jerusalem as the capital of Israel.
In the first session titled 'The Implications of the Gulf Crisis and its Future Prospects', the speakers said the siege imposed on Qatar and the region's crises will result in serious consequences and difficult economic, political and social dimensions.
The second session entitled 'New Alignments in the Middle East' discussed the competition over ports and their impact on the Middle East crises as well as the map of alliances on the Syrian arena and its regional and international interventions and conflicts of influence in the Horn of Africa.
The third session entitled 'Military Challenges in the Middle East' discussed the future of the regular armies and their challenges, terrorist groups and the security threats in the context of armed conflicts.