tribune news network
doha
Lebanon has won the sixth Asian Communities Football Tournament (ACFT) after defeating India in a penalty-shootout (4-3) after the match ended in a draw of 1-1 on Friday. This is the second time Lebanon lifts the ACFT trophy. It won its' first title back in 2015. Thousands of fans enjoyed the final match which took place in Al Arabi Stadium.
An award ceremony was held to honour the first, second, and third place teams, along with the match commissioner, and Qatar Football Association (QFA) referees who officiated the matches of the tournament.
Lebanon lifted the champions trophy and received a cash prize of QR15,000, while India and Jordan received cash prizes of QR10,000 and QR5000 Qatari Riyals respectively.
A special cash prize of QR5000 and trophy was awarded to Hussein Mansour, top scorer of the tournament. Other special prizes included best player award, Mohamed Al Saghir, best coach, Ali Koteish and best goalkeeper, Ali Krayem. This year, a trophy was given to the Indian Community Leader, Nilangshu Dey, who represented the Indian community fan base, who were chosen as the best community fan base in the tournament.
Hilal al Mohannadi, Chairman of the Sub-Leagues Committee at the QFA said:"I would like to congratulate Lebanon on winning the title of this year's Asian Communities Football Tournament, they deserved the win. We are very happy with the turnout of fans to the final as it demonstrates the football passion in Qatar. The ACFT demonstrates QFA's objective which is to organise a tournament that acts as an effective tool to help support integration and positive community engagement amongst the various communities in Qatar through football."
"We thank our partners for their ongoing support which started in 2013, their support is valuable for the ACFT and it also provides a unique opportunity for community teams to take part in this significant tournament while allowing the teams to display their talents and love for football," he added.
Khalid al Jumaily, Community Engagement Manager at the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy said:"I would like to congratulate Lebanon on winning first place, and I would also like to congratulate India on earning second place in the tournament. India played really well throughout the match, however, Lebanon were determined to win this edition, and were keen on not repeating what happened in last year's final, which was to lose against Jordan.
"We are happy to sponsor the ACFT once again as we consider it to be a tournament that successfully spreads the culture of football in Qatar, and also encourages the various communities to lead a healthy lifestyle through playing football. Lebanon and Jordan communities have a big passion for football and their teams possess incredible football skills," he added.