dpa
Rome
Jose Callejon netted a late goal in Napoli's 1-1 draw at Sassuolo Saturday, but the second-placed Neapolitans could see Serie A leaders Juventus move four points clear if they beat AC Milan in the round-closing game.
Matteo Politano volleyed on the rebound after Federico Peluso headed a free-kick against the post for Sassuolo's' 22nd-minute lead as the visitors failed to produce their usual incisive play.
Napoli winger Lorenzo Insigne was denied from close range and in the second half Domenico Berardi squandered a chance after a save from Napoli goalkeeper Pepe Reina.
With 10 minutes left Callejon got the better of Rogerio following a bouncing cross before substitute Arkadiusz Milik sent an overhead kick against the hosts' bar.
Roma clawed their way back for a 1-1 draw at Bologna to hold on to third place with eight games to go.
After Erick Pulgar's low drive put the hosts ahead in the 18th minute, the Giallorossi threatened on 29 when Kevin Strootman hit the post and levelled on 76 after Edin Dzeko came on to nod home a Diego Perotti cross.
Roma fill the third of four Champions League places with a two-point lead over Inter Milan, who beat second-last Verona 3-0 thanks to a Mauro Icardi brace and have a game in hand.
Inter closed in on Roma as Icardi and Ivan Perisic struck in the first 13 minutes, and the Argentinian got a second after the break, his 24th league goal.
Verona goalkeeper Nicolas Andrade was sent off in stoppage time.
Lazio's Ciro Immobile also struck twice and tops the scoring charts on 26 as the fifth-placed Rome side won 6-2 at home against gritty 10-man Benevento.
The league tailenders had goalkeeper Christian Puggioni dismissed for handling the ball outside the box before Immobile struck, but ex-Lazio player Danilo Cataldi levelled with a great free-kick and Guilherme put the visitors ahead in the second half.
But Felipe Caicedo, Stefan de Vrij, Immobile, Lucas Leiva and Luis Alberto then secured victory for the Romans, who sit one point behind Inter and boast the best attack in the lead with 73 goals.
Atalanta beat Udinese 2-0, Fiorentina also won 2-0 against third-last Crotone, who had Marco Capuano sent off with two bookings. Torino won 4-0 at Cagliari, Chievo rallied to beat Sampdoria 2-1 and Genoa drew 1-1 at home to 10-man Spal.
Genoa striker Gianluca Lapadula had a spotkick saved, but converted his second after Francesco Vicari tripped him to be dismissed. Manuel Lazzari then levelled for the Ferrara side, who are now two points clear of the three-team drop zone.