tribune news network
doha
Al Nasr clinched the title of this year's Qatar Amateur League (QAL) after beating Al Matar 2-1 which increased Al Nasr's total points to 30 points, allowing them to lead the league and earn first place.
Al Bidda came in second in the tournament after defeating Al Khabayib 3-1 in the match that was played earlier in the evening, where the win earned Al Bidda three points and increased its' points to 29 points.
The prize-giving ceremony was attended by H.E. Hasan Najem Ambassador of Lebanon to Qatar, Hani Ballan, QFA Board Member, Hilal Al Mohannadi, Chairman of the Sub-Leagues Committee at QFA, and Khalid Al Jumaily, Community Engagement Manager at the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy.
Al Nasr received a cash prize of 80,000 Qatar Riyals, while Al Bidda and Al Matar received a cash prize of 60,000 and 40,000 Qatari Riyals respectively. A special cash prize of 5,000 was given to the top scorer of the league, Yehia Al Haj from Qatar University team, and a trophy was also given to Al Matar team who were voted the best team management in the tournament.
Hilal al Mohannadi, Chairman of the Sub-Leagues Committee at QFA commented:"Congratulations to Al Nasr on winning the fifth edition of the Qatar Amateur League. They have played well and deserved to win champions tonight. The goal of organizing the QAL is that the amateur players in Qatar deserve an amateur league and this tournament illustrates QFA's 2021 vision to improve and develop amateur football in Qatar."
"I would like to thank the sponsors for their support which ensures the overall success of the QAL. I would also like to thank Aspetar for providing the necessary medical services for the players and ensuring the medical treatment of players in case of injuries," he added.
Organising the QAL demonstrates QFA's commitment to providing a platform for teams from the social, corporate and governmental sectors to integrate and interact through football in a fun and competitive environment.
This year, the fifth edition of the QAL featured the participation of 13 teams from across Qatar with three matches being played every Sunday and Monday.
The 13 teams competing in this year's QAL are Qatar University, Al Khabayib, Madinat Khalifa, The Pearl, Al Nasr, Lusail, Al Thakhira, Al Thumama, Al Maroona, Al Bidda, Al Aziziya, Al Matar, and Doha. A total of 390 players registered for this year's edition, from which 130 are Qatari.
Matches were played at three different venues including Doha Stadium, Al Markhiya Sports Club and Qatar University. The league followed a single round-robin format.
The QAL's sponsors for this year include The Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy as the Official Strategic Partner, Qatar National Bank (QNB) as the Exclusive Financial Partner, Nike as the Official Supplier, Al Kass Channel as the Official Broadcaster and The Look Company as the Branding Partner.