dpa
Berlin
Robert Lewandowski scored a hat-trick to help a rampant Bayern Munich embarrass Borussia Dortmund 6-0 at home on Saturday and move one win away from a record-extending sixth Bundesliga title.
James Rodriguez, Thomas Mueller and Franck Ribery were also on target in a very one-sided Klassiker, which showed how far third-placed Dortmund have fallen since they last beat Bayern to the championship in 2012.
Bayern boast a 17-point lead with six games left and a win at fellow Bavarians Augsburg next Saturday will bring a 28th German title, the 27th in the Bundesliga era.
"We wanted to get it over and done with quickly as we have a Champions League game at Sevilla in just a couple of days," said Bayern defender and ex-Dortmund player Mats Hummels, whose side also beat Dortmund away and in the German Cup this term.
"We have a great team spirit and mentality at the moment," added Hummels, despite his team losing to RB Leipzig last time out.
Second-placed Schalke beat Freiburg 2-0 earlier, meaning Bayern had to wait at least another week to seal the title. The last time they did so at home was in 2000.
In Munich, Dortmund coach Peter Stoeger suffered his first league defeat since taking over in December, but at least it was not quite as bad as Bayern's record Klassiker win - 11-1 in 1971. Bayern made a fast start and former Dortmund star Lewandowski netted on five minutes following Mueller's neat pass. The officials and video assistant decided the Poland striker had been just onside.
Ribery soon had the ball in the net again but this time the video assistant ruled the goal out but no one in the vast Allianz Arena or watching on television knew exactly why - a major recurring problem for the VAR system.
It did not matter as Rodriguez soon made it 2-0 from Mueller's cross.
Gonzalo Castro then gave the ball away in midfield, typical of Dortmund's lacklustre showing, and Bayern charged forward with Rodriguez returning the compliment for Mueller to clip home on 23 minutes.
Great work from Ribery then allowed Lewandowski to prod home and Ribery himself slammed in the fifth just before the break.
The second half was dull until Bundesliga top-scorer Lewandowski scored a tap-in late on for his 26th league goal this term.
Schalke laboured for their sixth successive league victory but the game burst to life when Breel Embolo went down under Manuel Gulde's challenge just after the hour.
It was a debatable spotkick but not a clear enough error for the video assistant to step in and Daniel Caligiuri converted.