Tribune News Network
DOHA
QNB, the largest financial institution in the Middle East and Africa, has signed a sponsorship contract with the Qatar Cycling and Triathlon Federation (QCTF) to support the latter's activities.
The signing ceremony was signed Salem al Nuaimi, Assistant General Manager of QNB's Communications Department, and Dr. Mohammed Jaham al Kuwari, President of Qatar Cycling and Triathlon Federation.
The sponsorship comes within the framework of the bank's keenness to support Qatari sports in general and continue to help raise the level of cycling and triathlon in Qatar.
"We are delighted to announce this new sponsorship to support cycling and triathlon sports that have seen tremendous growth in Qatar over the past years and are now very popular with young generation in Qatar," said Nuaimi.
"QNB continues to play its pivotal role in community responsibility by continuing to support all national institutions and federations in the sports sector in Qatar, in line with the vision and mission of the group on one hand and the promotion of Qatari sports on the other."
"I would like to thank the QNB officials for their sponsorship. This sponsorship is not new to us because they have always been our primary supporters for the cycling and triathlon activities. We consider QNB as our partner, not just a sponsor or supporter of our bid for success," QCTF president Kuwari said.
"We hope that the national, private companies and institutions follow the example of QNB because sports in Qatar attract a great interest of the wise leadership of our nation. We are proud of QNB and hope that they will be supporter for us in the next phase as we always think of the continuity of success," he added.
"We are very pleased with this sponsorship, especially from QNB, the largest financial institution in the Middle East and Africa. We welcome the continued support of the bank along with the other sponsors of the Qatar Cycling and Triathlon Federation in order to continue success together," said Jamal Abdul Latif al Kuwari, the QCTF General Secretary.