dpa
Berlin
Second-placed Schalke beat Freiburg 2-0 on Saturday, meaning Bayern Munich will have to wait at least another week to seal the Bundesliga title.
If Schalke had failed to win, Bayern could have wrapped up a record-extending sixth straight Bundesliga championship with victory over Borussia Dortmund later. Instead, a win over their rivals will give Bayern a 17-point lead with six games left.
Daniel Caligiuri's controversial second-half penalty and Guido Burgstaller's confident finish handed Schalke their sixth successive victory.
In the race for Champions League spots, RB Leipzig clung on for a thrilling 3-2 win at Hanover to move fourth and fifth-placed Bayer Leverkusen slipped to a 0-0 home draw with Augsburg.
Bottom side SV Hamburg drew 1-1 at VfB Stuttgart and second-bottom Cologne were thumped 6-0 at Hoffenheim with relegation continuing to beckon.
Schalke laboured for their victory but the game burst to life when Breel Embolo went down under Manuel Gulde's challenge just after the hour.
It was a debatable spotkick but not a clear enough error for the video assistant to step in and Caligiuri converted.
Freiburg were incensed and coach Christian Streich was sent to the stands and Nils Petersen ended up being dismissed before Burgstaller made the game safe for Schalke.
"Freiburg are very compact, there were not many gaps," Caligiuri told Sky TV."In the second half we had a few more chances and then the red card played into our hands."
RB Leipzig took an early lead in Hanover when Timo Werner unselfishly squared the ball for Emil Forsberg to slot home. Willi Orban headed in a second on 54 minutes following a corner as the visitors looked to be cruising.
Salif Sane hit back before Yussuf Poulsen re-established Leipzig's two-goal lead.
Niclas Fuellkrug scored almost immediately for Hanover to set up a furious finish where the home side had a goal chalked off for offside and hit the post.
Leipzig are now a point above Leverkusen, who struggled to break down Augsburg in a tepid home display.
See also page 24 f1'eef0