QP and Partners Win Bids to Explore Four Offshore Blocks in Brazil Posted on Comments Qatar Petroleum has won exploration rights in four offshore blocks in Brazil, as part of two bidding consortia. The winning bids were announced by the National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas, and Biofuels (ANP) at a public bidding session held in Rio de Janeiro. Competing bids were submitted to ANP and the winners were announced throughout the course of the public session. The exploration blocks were offered as part of Brazil Exploration Bid Round 15 , which covered 70 blocks across a wide range of geological basins. QP won the exploration rights for blocks 789 and 753 in the Campos basin as part of a consortium comprising affiliates of ExxonMobil (operator with a 40% interest), Petrobras (30% interest), and QP (30% interest). The company also won the exploration rights for blocks 536 and 647 in the Santos basin as part of a consortium comprising affiliates of ExxonMobil (operator with a 64% interest), and Qatar Petroleum (36% interest). QP President and CEO Saad Sherida Al-Kaabi said they are pleased with the outcome of the bid, which will enable the company to expand their footprint in Brazil. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Brazilian authorities for promoting a transparent and efficient process, and our consortia partners Petrobras and ExxonMobil for their collaboration in this opportunity. We look forward to working with our partners to create a long-term, sustainable economic value for the project stakeholders.’ The relevant legal agreements, including the concession agreements, are expected to be signed between the Brazilian authorities and the consortia members by November this year. This is the second winning bid of Qatar Petroleum in Brazil. In October 2017, QP was also part of a winning consortium with Shell and China National Offshore Oil Corporation for exploration in the Alto de Cabo Frio-Oeste block in the prolific Santos hydrocarbon basin offshore Brazil. The block was offered as part of Brazil’s third production sharing bid round, which covered four blocks located in the ‘pre-salt polygon’ region in the Santos and Campos basins: Pau Brasil, Peroba, Alto de Cabo Frio-Oeste, and Alto de Cabo Frio-Central. QP Raises Foreign and Shareholder Ownership Limits 
Meanwhile, QP announced raising non-Qatari ownership limit in the energy sector companies and its subsidiaries listed on Qatar Stock Exchange to 49%, raising the shareholder ownership limits in these companies to no more than 2%. QP also asked the concerned companies to take the necessary measures and steps to implement the decision. Qatar Electricity and Water Company, WOQOD, Gulf International Services Company and Mesaieed Petrochemical Holding Company will take the necessary steps within the coming weeks to approve the increase in foreign ownership limit to 49% in accordance with the applicable regulations and procedures. WOQOD will increase the shareholder ownership limit to 1%, while Gulf International Services and Mesaieed Petrochemical Holding Company will increase this limit to 2%. Al-Kaabi said that the decision to raise the non-Qatari ownership limit in the energy sector companies will strengthen the Qatar Stock Exchange, contribute to its development as a leading regional financial centre and an attractive financial destination to local and global investments. Industries Qatar has also recently increased its foreign ownership limit to 49% in line with QP directives. 
For more information and updates on Qatar Petroleum, visit their website at qp.com.qa .