IKOLI VICTOR
doha
Al Sadd is on course to secure their berth in the last 16 of the AFC Champions League if they beat already eliminated UAE club Al Wasl in their Group C game at Jassim Bin Hamad Stadium on Monday.
The 2011 Champions League winners stormed to a 4-0 victory over Nasaf three weeks ago to maintain their position at the top of the standings with Spanish midfielder Xavi getting his maiden goal in the continental competition and top scorer Baghdad Bounedjah adding his fifth of the campaign. Al Sadd are looking to return to the knockout round for the first time since 2015.
Al Sadd won 2-1 away at Al Wasl on the opening day of the tournament before the UAE side went on to lose three consecutive games and, in doing so, becoming the first side to exit the 2018 AFC Champions League.
Al Sadd head coach Jesualdo Ferreira says there's wouldn't be any excuses and urged his players to give everything they have to win the game against Al Wasl on home turf.
Speaking at the pre-match press conference on Sunday, Ferreira said:"It is a very crucial game for us and for Qatari football, because winning it could take us to the next stage."
"The team has faced a lot of difficulties in preparing for the game due to the absence of international players. The match will not be easy and everyone knows that that the psychological aspect will have an effect on the game, especially as Al Wasl are under no pressure. As for us, our objective is to get three points and qualify for the next stage," Ferreira added.
"The players are confident that they can give their best. We have no excuses for failing to win at our home ground, in front of our fans."
Al Sadd's Qatari international players impressed with their performances during the recent International Friendship Tournament held in Basra, Iraq and Ferreira believes it can have a positive effect.
"The good performances with the national team will be a boost for us. I want to congratulate the QFA for the title win. All the Al Sadd players will now have the confidence and desire to get a win today."
Ferreira also added:"During the league break, the coach works to ensure that his players are fully fit. This season, we have never played with a full-strength team. However, Al Sadd are capable of making up for it.
"This match is very important for Al Sadd. We are capable of giving our best and securing the three points."
Elsewhere, Esteghlal at Azadi Stadium will host Al Rayyan on Monday in Iran and victory for either side when the pair clash in Group D would secure their passage into the knockout stage with a game to spare.
Coach Michael Laudrup says the team's target is to qualify for the round of 16."We have experience in this kind of pressure matches. Our goal is to get to the knockout stage."
Meanwhile, Sheikh Saud bin Khalid bin Hamad al Thani, President of Al Rayyan FC, says the team is well prepared for the match and the target is the maximum points according to the club website.
"We came with the aim of winning all three points in order to maintain top spot in Group D."
Sheikh Saud added that Rayyan have a strong team that can contain any pressure whether playing at home or away with the presence of established international players.