Tribune News Network
Doha
Under the patronage of HE Mohammed bin Saleh al Sada, Qatar's Minister of Energy and Industry, the Gulf Organisation for Industrial Consulting (GOIC) will hold"The Qatari-Omani joint entrepreneurs meeting" in Doha on April 11-12, a press statement said on Sunday.
The event is held in collaboration with Modern Talent, a Omani-based company that specialises in organising events and conferences, the statement added.
Abdulaziz bin Hamad al Ageel, GOIC Secretary General, said,"This meeting is part of GOIC's endeavours to strengthen industrial and commercial cooperation and coordination between GCC countries."
He stressed the importance of GOIC's role in promoting economic and industrial development, cooperation and partnerships between public and private sectors in the region, particularly in the areas of investments and trade.
Amina bint Khadem bin Saeed al Awadi, CEO of Modern Talent, said the event's organising company will cooperate with GOIC to organise the first joint meeting between Qatari and Omani entrepreneurs.
She added,"This event encompasses several themes, notably promoting investment opportunities in both countries, encouraging partnerships between entrepreneurs to boost trade movement and contribute to the economic development of the two countries, introducing investment opportunities in the fields of technology and telecommunications and strengthening economic ties between the two countries to stimulate innovation among the youth."
The joint business meeting aims at facilitating investments for Qatari and Omani businessmen in the two countries and encouraging industrial and commercial partnerships to contribute to economic development in Qatar and Oman.
The event will introduce the various characteristics and scopes of investment opportunities in Qatar and Oman to help young entrepreneurs innovate and boost all forms of investments.
In addition to this, the event aims to benefit from the unlimited human and natural capabilities, to promote economic relations in various fields and to encourage partnerships between factory owners and experts in both countries.
The event will present an opportunity to stimulate Qatari-Omani economic relations to increase commercial exchange in line with the expectations of the two countries.
The event will focus on key economic sectors such as heavy industries, logistics, tourism, technology and software, real estate, hospitals management, gas and its derivatives, pharmaceuticals, food industries, agriculture and livestock, the statement added.