Asif Iqbal
Doha
In a bid to boost the country's efforts to achieve self sufficiency, Qatari Businessmen Association Chairman Sheikh Faisal bin Qassim al Thani inaugurated the three-day Qatar Self Sufficiency Exhibition 2018 in Doha on Sunday.
The expo is considered to be the first of its kind in the region and aims to show the latest manufacturing and production innovations that play a significant role in meeting the country's needs.
"The exhibition is a timely event that aligns with the goals of the country for a diverse, sustainable economy," Sheikh Faisal said after the inauguration.
"This gives Qatari companies a unique opportunity to engage with global players on the world stage and enables international exhibitors to demonstrate the way to contribute to that goal."
Sheikh Faisal said the country is offering new opportunities for local and international business leaders to contribute towards a dynamic, self-sufficient national economy. With self-sufficiency — a key pillar in the long-term strategy — there is a growing need for new production lines within the country that will help facilitate a sustainable economy of the future, he added.
According to Sheikh Faisal, Qatar is now ready to welcome all projects that offer added value, especially after the regulations and procedures announced by the Emir His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani. The establishment of free zones, where any foreign investor can invest 100 percent in Qatar, further adds to the allure of Qatar, he said.
The Qatar Self-Sufficiency Exhibition is considered a platform for foreign investors to showcase their projects and meet Qatari businessmen. Sheikh Faisal urged all Qatari companies in all sectors to take part in this exhibition and take advantage of the opportunities the exhibition has to offer.
The QBA chairman said the country is being steered towards growth and success and it has continued to move ahead, displaying resilience and a clear determination to grow and become self reliant.
Following the inauguration, Sheikh Faisal toured the 10,000sqm exhibition at Doha Exhibition and Convention Center, which is hosting 120 booths from Qatar and the region as well as France, Germany, Austria, Tunisia, Netherlands, Brazil, Kuwait, Canada, Greece, Iran, China, Finland, Kurkistan, and Turkey.
Qatar Development Bank Chief Executive Officer Abdulaziz bin Nasser al Khalifa, in his remarks, said the bank has been organising several initiatives aimed at achieving self-sufficiency.
He said QDB is always keen to support SMEs by building and promoting their capacities in becoming service and industry provider in country.