CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
HAMAD Medical Corporation (HMC) has started and will continue to have more Quality Improvement Projects and Quality Improvement Study in the coming years.
From last year to 2021, HMC is expecting to have approximately 300 to 400 Quality Improvement projects with an outcome, and from 2018 to 2022, more Quality Improvement Research Study.
Speaking to media persons in Doha on Sunday, HMC's Executive Director of Clinical Transformation and Quality and Patient Safety Dr Moza Alishaq said:"For next four years we are expecting to have more than 100 Quality Improvement Research study. We are also running different programmes with Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI). Since 2014, we have conducted close to 400 improvement projects until now,with IHI and Corporate Quality Department. We accept better projects that have an outcome. Once we have an outcome we publish that study."
According to her, the recently concluded Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in healthcare was themed 'Building a Culture of Safety' which means that they have to be responsible."After the conference, we started to have this quality and patient safety workshop. This workshop will run for a year in collaboration with Joint Commission International."
She further said:"This programme was started last year in April with JCI and the first cohort is going to graduate in May and the second in September. Now, we started with the third cohort. In the first cohort we had 100 participants with a maximum of eight members from each facility. We group them in facilities (HMC hospitals and entities). In the first cohort, we covered eight facilities. In cohort two, there are 95 participants, and 102 are participating on quality and patient safety workshop."
Alishaq said that based on 'Building a Culture of Safety' theme they tried to develop all the incoming projects based on the forum.
Next week they are going to have the second Patient Safety Awareness week. This week will be related to the"quality of service, reducing harm to patient's condition"."We are encouraging people to engage patients and their families into the care being given to them and any decision-making, understanding their treatment, giving a chance to talk about things that concerns them."
"We have the 'Ask Me 3', whereby the patients have the right to know the three questions: 'What is my main problem?' 'What do I need to do?' and 'Why it is important for me to do this?' The patients have the right to ask these three questions to the medical team," she said.
She also said that after this programme, there will be another programme which starts on April 15. It will focus on research: Quality Improvement Research.
She noted that before implementing something to the patients, it has to be tested."We have a tool in quality improvement called 'Plan- Do- Study- Act'. This tool will help you to test everything you have before implementing it to the patients. It has to be evidence-based. We cannot apply any care for our patients before we understand that it is an evidence-based and their quality of care, services. We have to focus on patient safety."
She added that HMC has finished one week of education and training for different facilities whereby they are required to, at the end, have improvement projects. Some of the improvement projects will be running for six months, others one year."They are required to do improvement projects while they are getting into any training and education. This is because at HMC we ask all the healthcare workers that any time they get into training and education programme, they have to think of how to make changes and improvements at HMC."
She also said that at the end of it all, they think of patient safety, and the quality of care that is given to the patient.