Tribune News Network
Doha
AS part of completing the E-Ring Road and Najma Street Development Project, the Public Works Authority (Ashghal) opened the pedestrian bridge on the E-Ring Road, located between Al Thumama Intersection and the Intersection of Al Matar Street with E-Ring Road.
Eng Saoud al Tamimi, Roads Projects Department in Ashghal, stated that there is a continuous cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and Communications to construct a number of bridges in all parts of the country, to enhance traffic safety and ensure pedestrians' safety.
Eng Saoud added that the pedestrian bridge on the E-Ring Road aims to enable residents of the area and visitors to cross this vital road and reach the commercial establishments. This is in addition to facilitating access between the residents of Old Airport (Area 45) and Al Rawda 'Thumama' (Area 47).
For her part, Sheikha al Jufairi, Central Municipal Council (CMC) member, said that she would like to thank the Public Works Authority and the Ministry of Transport and Communications for being very cooperative and for honouring her request and efforts in pushing for the construction of this bridge, which is beneficial for her constituents.
It's worth mentioning that the pedestrian bridge, which is 66-m-long and 4-m-wide, is equipped with elevators on both sides which can accommodate a large number of users including those with special needs. The bridge is equipped with lighting, closed-circuit television (CCTV) and a pedestrian counter.
Ashghal completed in July 2017 all of the works of the E-Ring Road and Najma Street Development Project, which included the development of around three kilometres of Najma Street, and the development of around 3.3 km of the E-Ring Road to increase the number of its lanes to four lanes in each direction. Project works also included the construction of three new signal-controlled intersections and a U-turn facility on the E-ring Street junction with Al Matar Street, in addition to providing cyclist lanes, infrastructure utilities and landscaping.
The opening of the E-Ring Road's pedestrian bridge is part of the Authority's efforts to provide a number of pedestrian bridges in various parts of the country, through expressways, main roads and local roads projects.
One of the most prominent pedestrian bridges implemented by Ashghal is the East Industrial Road's pedestrian bridge, which has been witnessing a remarkable use by pedestrians who have been using it daily and in large numbers since its opening.
The construction of this 80-m-long bridge aimed to enhance road safety and enable pedestrians to cross the Eastern Industrial Road, adjacent to Salwa Road, owing to the lack of safe crossings on the East Industrial Road known for its heavy traffic and to facilitate the pedestrians' access to many existing commercial buildings there.