Tribune News Network
Doha
Major projects implemented by the government in Qatar will push the domestic construction sector to grow by 7 percent every year until 2019, a SAK Holding Group report said in Sunday.
Highlighting the steadiness of the real estate sector and its ability to face current obstacles, the report said, it has accumulated a compound annual growth rate of 15 percent between 2012 and 2017.
"The government has created a comprehensive shift in the composition of the economy. It launched a number of initiatives to boost the economy, open up to foreign markets and build global partnerships, as a direct expression of the vision of Qatar's prudent leadership."
The report said all realty indictors corroborate the government's expectations that the economy will grow by 2 to 3 percent during 2018.
The total volume of projects implemented by Qatar, which aims to diversify the economy and prepare the country for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, is more than QR728 billion, equivalent to 121 percent of the national GDP in 2017.
Citing an IMF report, which said the negative financial and economic impacts caused by the unjust siege imposed of Qatar by some of its neighbours, the SAK report said the trust international agencies repose in Qatar reflects the economy's resilience to adversities.
The report said the government took a series of actions and measures that went hand-in-hand since the outset of the blockade as a part of its alternative strategy to achieve its second national development strategy 2018-2022, which was recently launched to achieve the goals of the four pillars of Qatar National Vision 2030.
The report said the volume of government spending on major infrastructure and development projects, including a modern transportation network, Doha Rail Project, and all World Cup 2022 projects acted as a catalyst for urban and real estate prosperity.
"This growth is expected to continue in the construction market in Qatar at an annual rate that will reach up to 7 percent by 2019."
As per the report, the real estate sector still remains attractive to domestic and foreign investors despite the challenges.
In addition, the repercussions of the blockade did not have a major influence on the construction industry. It maintained a remarkable pace of growth that surpasses by far the markets in the surrounding countries, which are experiencing fluctuations in confidence because of lack of transparency and credibility of their incentive laws.
In the next few years, the report expects to see the start of migration of real estate investments in these countries to Qatar.