Satyendra Pathak
Doha
The green fodder projects awarded to private firms have entered the cultivation stage and are expected to meet 90 percent of the demand for animal feed in Qatar by the end of this year, Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohammed bin Abdullah al Rumaihi said on Sunday.
Inaugurating the Umm Ghuwailina project implemented by Al Baida Group, the minister said the green fodder cultivated at the farm is of high quality and available at competitive prices.
Umm Ghuwailina project of Al Baida Group is one of the three green fodder projects awarded to private sector companies under the public-private partnership (PPP) model.
According to an estimate, Qatar requires a total of 9,000 tonnes of green fodder per annum to feed its animals.
While Al Baida Group's Um Guilina project will produce almost 3,000 tonnes of fodder per year, the overall production from the three green fodder projects will be around 7,000 tonnes per annum by the end of this year.
Rumaihi said the beginning of cultivation of green fodder with treated wastewater by Al Baida Group demonstrates yet another success story of the PPP model in the country.
"Such projects will bridge the gap between supply and demand of high-quality green fodder in the domestic market and increase the self-sufficiency ratio in the country," the minister said.
Al Baida Group Chairman Ali bin Abdul Latif al Misnad told Qatar Tribune that various facilities at the site are being created to maintain strategic stock of animal feed at competitive prices.
This particular project is very important for us as it will contribute to achieving self-sufficiency in green fodder, he said.
The project holds a lot of significance as it is being implemented at a time when the country is facing an economic blockade by the neighbouring countries, Misnad said.
"We quickly approached alternative markets, including the US, Turkey and Europe, to source agricultural equipment, fertilisers and seeds to complete the project on time," he said.
"The final product is alfalfa clover weighing 19-20 kg per packet and 80 percent of the project area has been fully cultivated. We have the capacity to produce 220,000 packets per year. One packet is available for QR45 in the local market," Misnad said.