Tribune News Network
As part of ICBF Day 2018 celebration, the ballet 'Heer-Ranjha - The saga of all love sagas' depicting the eternal love story from the folklore of Punjab, re-written and directed by Sameer Moosa, was presented to recreate the magic of love.
The dialogues written in Hindi/Urdu held the audience in raptures and each of the six songs written and composed by Moosa included everything from qawwalis to mujras to ghazals. The production was awe-inspiring with its use of audio-visual equipment, costumes and props, recreating the times of the saga.
Indian Ambassador to Qatar HE P Kumaran appreciated the work as being unique. The members of the audience that included embassy officials, presidents and members of affiliated organisations, community leaders, personalities and others who packed the 800+ capacity auditorium of DPS-MIS at Al-Wakrah remained glued to their seats till the end of the one-hour-forty-five-minute show.
The ballet was enacted by a cast of more than 25 talented local artistes coming from different walks of life. In the lead was Anshu Jain of 89.6 One FM as Heer and Dr Amit Varma as Ranjha who lived their characters on stage. Contribution from veterans in the field like Arvind Patil (Peer Baba) and Chandrasekhar Angadi (Dhara, the Zameendar's son) added strength to the show. Sweta Bharadwaj (Dillon-Heer's sister) excelled in both acting and beautiful choreography.
The cast also included experienced actors like Khusboo Shekh (Ranjha's ever-caring sister-in-law), Dev Tamboli (Ranjha's concerned brother) and Avinash Gaikwad (the food-aholic Kazi saab), as also debutants. Amol Bhongale (Dhara's friend), Moksha Gupta (Heer's mother), Lalit Pandey (Heer's father, Choudhari), Dinesh Gowda (Ranjha's friend) stood to match even the most talented performers on stage. Even supporting actors like Manisha Deshpande, Poorni Ravi, Aditya Deepa (Heer's friends) and Shashi Singh (the Choudhari's assistant) gave their best on the stage.
The grand catch of the show was undoubtedly Sandeep Arya (Heer's wicked step-uncle), a character whom it was expected would steal the scenes, and who did so indisputably. Extended support from Subramniyam H and Team, Mohindar Jalandhari and his talented Bhangda artistes, Seena Rajeev and Yogesh Kumar was beyond praise as they added sparkle to the show.
Throughout the staging of the play, the audience remained spellbound and the applause at the end clearly demonstrated the amazing experience and emotional roller coaster they had ridden through the ballet.
The message in the end was that people may come and go, but love will continue to exist in all hearts, in one form or another. It never dies.