Satyendra Pathak
Doha
Qatar's stock market climbed on Sunday after the announcement by Qatar Petroleum (QP) to raise foreign ownership limits in its subsidiaries listed on the Qatari bourse.
The Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) main index rose 1.1 percent after Qatar Petroleum said foreign investors would be able to hold up to 49 percent of its affiliates Qatar Fuel (Woqod), Gulf International Services (GIS), Mesaieed Petrochemical (MPHC) and Qatar Electricity and Water Company (QEWC).
Buoyed by the announcement, MPHC jumped 9.9 percent, Woqod gained 7.1 percent, Gulf International Services was up 6.3 percent and Qatar Electricity and Water rose 1.2 percent.
"The rise in market prices today was a response to QP's announcement of lifting foreign ownership limits.
"This move will have a positive effect down the road when emerging market indices providers FTSE and MSCI perform their periodic review, which will ultimately raise Qatar's weight in their respective indices," Talal Samhouri, head of asset management at Amwal said.
The decision will also have a very positive effect on the investment flows into the Qatari stocks and increase the effective foreign ownership, Samhouri said.
Despite the rise in prices today, he said, some companies are still undervalued compared to other emerging markets.
"We believe the move by QP will attract active international managers immediately as opposed to passive fund managers who track the EM indices," he said.
Increasing non-Qatari investors' ownership in Qatari stocks will support the QSE's vision to attract more investments to the Qatari market, another analyst said.
"Moreover, the decision will enhance the market's liquidity in addition to enabling the general index to overcome its previous losses," the analyst said.
By the end of the first session of this week, the general index rose 95.05 points to 8,669.04 points.
The bourse's liquidity decreased to QR274.66 million on Sunday from QR 299.75 million on Thursday, while the trading volume increased to 10.73 million shares against 9.85 million in the previous session.
The goods and services sector topped the QSE's five gainers adding 3.27 percent on the back of 7.07 percent rise in Woqod.
Similarly, the industrial sector rose 2.43 percent as MPHC surged 9.94 percent.
The banking sector levelled up 1.15 percent as Qatar National Bank (QNB) grew 1.62 percent.
MPHC led the bourse in terms of trading volume with 2.95 million shares, while Woqod headed the market in terms of liquidity with QR55.02 million.