Santhosh Chandran
Doha
MINISTER of Transport and Communications HE Jassim bin Saif Ahmed al Sulaiti has urged Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) in Qatar to explore the potential of the booming digital market in the country which is connected to the wider global market.
Sulaiti was speaking on the occasion of the launch of the Ministry of Transport and Communications' (MoTC) Digital Transformation programme, DTMSE (Digital Transformation for Medium and Small Enterprises), in Doha on Sunday.
The programme offers digital solutions for Small and Medium Enterprises to help them expand their businesses through the website 'www.godigital.qa'.
Sulaiti further said the new initiative aims for a complete transformation of SMEs with the support of information technology.
"The programme is designed to enable SMEs in the country to use technology, thereby supporting their digital transformation as the path to future and the key to success. The world is taking advantage of the latest technology, which helps in saving time, reducing cost, increasing productivity and earning more profit. The new initiative offers a platform for new investors to establish their strong foundation, making them efficient to play a role in the development of the digital economy. It will be the golden era for SMEs in the history of Qatar. By the end of 2019, more than 5,000 companies will have benefited from the programme," Sulaiti said.
The programme, implemented in association with Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC), Communications Regulatory Authority (CRA), Qatar Development Bank (QDB), Qatar Chamber of Commerce and Industry (QCCI), Qatar National Bank (QNB), Ooredoo, Bedaya Center for Entrepreneurship and Career Development, and Microsoft, will provide a potential digital platform that offers various services free of cost for the next one year.
The programme will help SMEs connect with the right service providers, trustworthy clients and elaborate databases without initial investment.
"Today, Qatar has the best Information and Communication Technology infrastructure. With the availability of high-speed broadband, advanced data centres and cloud computing services, existing Qatari companies, as well as small, medium and emerging businesses, have the foundations to advance and reach global markets and develop innovative services," Sulaiti added.
The MoTC event also featured an exhibition of latest technology provided by the reputed IT firms from across the world.
An exhibitor participating in the event said,"Robust and innovative business solutions, which require considerable investment, offered free of cost by the government is a promising opportunity for SMEs in the country."
The event was attended by senior officials from MoTC, MEC, CRA, QDB, QCCI, QNB, Ooredoo, Bedaya and Microsoft.