Tribune News Network
The first edition of the British International Schools Qatar Games (BISQ) U-11 took place recently at Aspire Zone, bringing together hundreds of children from 13 British curriculum schools across the country.
At the end of two days, after students put in their best displays of determination, resilience and sportsmanship, Doha College took home the big trophy, finishing first overall. The 36-member DC team of athletes defeated Doha English Speaking School (DESS), placed second, and Al Khor International School (AKIS), placed third in a fiercely contested competition. They delivered excellent performances in all sports, but shone brightest in boys' basketball and girls' football.
Doha College Primary PE Head Sally Gale-Key thanked her dedicated team of PE teachers, who coached, inspired and supported the young competitors."A magnificent team effort and total commitment from our athletes and coaches ensured Doha College was the worthy winner of the inaugural BISQ Games 2018. To compete in the first-class Aspire Zone facilities was an honour and privilege for our young squad members and thanks must go to all who made these remarkable games possible. As coaches, we are extremely proud of what our squad has achieved, with every team and individual excelling to achieve their personal best, to take first place overall and be crowned BISQ Games U-11 champions," she said.
Doha College recognised their own 'Outstanding Contribution' sports people, namely Lois Nelson and Vitor Cruz, both in Year 6. In high spirits after her team's win, Lois said:"It was brilliant to have an opportunity to compete alongside talented athletes from across the country. Sometimes, it got very hard, but we never gave up." Lois participated in and excelled at all four sports played by girls at the BISQ Games including football, netball, swimming and athletics.
Doha College also came first jointly with Sherborne Qatar in the U-13 category, ahead of Park House English School and Mesaieed International School. The DC athletes claimed their joint triumphant first place win after clinching first place in both athletics and netball.
Doha College Secondary PE Head Gary Froud was delighted at his students' efforts."It was a great weekend of sport and our students competed in the right spirit with sportsmanship and commitment. As a PE department we were extremely proud of all the students who showed what outstanding sporting ambassadors they are. Each DC student battled with grit and determination and were delighted when their hard work paid off," he said.
Aspire provided a unique opportunity for students to compete in world-class sports facilities and the competition demonstrated the collaborative community approach in Qatar, encouraging youths to stay active and pursue healthy lifestyles. The sports education community in Qatar is particularly grateful to Doha British School for organising the event.