Satyendra Pathak
Doha
IN a major step towards achieving self-sufficiency in food and agriculture sector, Al Baida Group on Sunday officially announced the beginning of cultivation of green fodder (Alfalfaim) at its Umm Ghuwailina project.
The project for the cultivation of green fodder with treated wastewater was formally inaugurated by the Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohammed bin Abdullah al Rumaihi in the presence of top officials from Qatar Chamber.
Spread in an area of approximately two million square metres, the farm has the capacity to produce 2,700-3,000 tonnes of clover per year.
According to an initial agreement by Ministry of Municipality and Environment, Al Baida Group will operate the farm for 15 years to support Qatar in achieving self-sufficiency in agriculture sector.
The project, which entered production stage after a total investment of QR45 million, would meet 30 percent of the total demand for animal feed in the country.
In an exclusive interview with Qatar Tribune, Al Baida Group Project Manager Mohammed Elwan said the project reached cultivation stage in the beginning of this year after two years of work to prepare infrastructure for cultivation.
Elwan said the project was developed using the latest global technologies through cooperation with international companies in the US, Europe and Turkey.
"The project was planned and designed with the latest methods of irrigation systems used in America and took into account the climate of Qatar. The vertical pumping system was adopted for its high quality and proven success in open-water irrigation system," he said.
The project's end product, Alfalfa clover weighing 19-20 kg per bundle, has already entered the local market for sale.
Available at QR45 per bundle, Elwan said, the Alfalfa clover bundles have become very popular among local farmers and firms dealing in dairy products and animal husbandry.
He said the company offers its products at wholesale rates and therefore it is competitive.
Besides, major dairy firms in Qatar, he said, a number of local farmers have become their regular customers.
Al Baida Group executed the project in record time using state-of-the-art technology in order to get the maximum yield from the cultivated area and help in reaching self-sufficiency of green fodder, he added.