Tribune News Network
Doha
Workers involved in the construction of stadiums for Qatar's 2022 FIFA World Cup will be paid almost $5 million over the next two years as compensation for recruitment and hardship fees which they might have paid in the past.
The Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy (SC) said that contractors working on its projects will reimburse workers as part of a 'Universal Payment' system.
The SC's Workers' Welfare Standards (WWS), the principles enshrined in all contracts relating to World Cup projects, prohibits the charging of recruitment fees.
Many of the SC's contractors employ legacy workers hired before the introduction of the WWS which the Universal Payment initiative is designed to address.
Such a groundbreaking step was reflected in the SC's third Annual Progress Report.
SC Secretary-General Hassan al Thawadi said,"The significance to reimburse workers who paid recruitment fees should not be underestimated. Unethical recruitment is a global issue and an area many countries all over the world struggle to manage. All too often, the very people who have left their homes to provide for their families are the ones exploited.
"We have been steadfast in our belief that this World Cup can be a catalyst for change, both in Qatar and in other parts of the world. Recruitment fee is a hugely complex issue, yet the SC and several of our contractors have agreed on a mechanism to ensure that our workers are reimbursed for the hardships they may have endured when coming to Qatar to work."
The achievements captured in the report outline the commitment of four main contractors and two other contracted parties (OCPs) during 2017.
HBK the main contractor on Lusail Stadium agreed to compensate QR2.7 million to 1,500 workers in the form of a monthly QR150 Special Project Allowance.
This figure is expected to double in the next 12 months as the workforce increases.
Other contractors included Larsen & Toubro (Al Rayyan Stadium), Nakheel (training sites/ Aspire Turf Nursery) Petroserv (Doha Port Project) and OCPs Twelvers and Manforce. The commitment by these contractors in 2017 resulted in 1,700 workers equivalent to 10 percent of the SC workforce receiving a guarantee of QR 3m in reimbursements.
Furthermore, one main contractor and six OCPs across the SC portfolio of construction projects have committed to paying a further QR9m by the end of 2019.
The SC has a introduced number of measures for worker welfare including top-notch accommodation, dedicated grievance hotlines, Worker Welfare Forums, emergency medical facilities, nutritional study and health and safety training.