Tribune News Network
Doha
As part of preparations for the Indonesian General Elections 2019, Indonesian Ambassador to Qatar, Air Marshal (Retd) HE Muhammad Basri Sidehabi on behalf of the General Election Committee (KPU) appointed and swore in the head, member, and secretariat of the local election committee abroad (PPLN), for Qatar recently.
The oath/pledge was administered by Ambassador Basri and was followed by the signing of the minutes of the oath-taking in front of the audience.
In his remarks, the envoy congratulated the officials sworn in as members of local election committee abroad, and hoped that the committee would work well and with full responsibility and in keeping with their oath, and according to the guidelines and directives of the General Election Committee.
The former Indonesian Parliament said that general elections are not only a celebration of democracy, but a process important for the future of democracy in Indonesia. Therefore, the role of the local election committee abroad and its secretariat is very important to make the exercise a success.
In this regard, the ambassador hoped that the Indonesian community in diaspora, under the aegis of the Permiqa which has a newly elected chairman, Prihandoko Saputro would provide support so that the election can be a successful event.
Heri Kartono was elected as the head of the committee, with its members being Dedi Buditriyanto, Ahmad Syarnubi Fatah, Agustina BC Sumayouw, Zaenal Arifin, Enjang Irpan and Syahrial Sawadjur as members. The secretary of the committee is Zaenur Rofid, with his team Lucky Malik Ahmad and Suhendrayani as executive officers.
On being sworn-in as the head of the committee, Kartono said he felt honoured to be trusted as the head of the committee. The former Permiqa chairman of Indonesian Community Association in Qatar prayed for the support of other committee members, the secretariat, and the Indonesian community in Qatar.
According to Indonesian Embassy official, Boy Dharmawan, the swearing-in ceremony was attended by home staff, local staff, as well as representatives of Indonesian community in Qatar in a solemn atmosphere. At the end of the event, the attendees congratulated the committee and the secretariat. He added that the number of Indonesians in Qatar has changed. According to data from the International Organization for Migration (IOM), in 2015, the number of Indonesians residing in Qatar was approximately 43,000, but it is predicted that in 2018 the number will be substantially lower than that.