Hisham Aljundi
Doha
Security checks at Hamad International Airport (HIA) have just got smarter.
The Airport Security Department at the Ministry of Interior (MoI), in cooperation with the Internal Security Forces (Lekhwiya) launched a security robot at HIA on Monday.
The smart robot in the shape of a scooter can measure pulse rate remotely and also has an inbuilt facial recognition feature. The robot is equipped with cameras and sensors to detect suspicious persons, fake currencies, credit cards, abandoned objects and explosive of any kind without disturpting the passenger flow at the airport terminal.
Brigadier Essa al Rumaihi, Head of HIA Security Department, said,"The security robot would help strengthen security services as it can identify suspicious passengers and stop them to carry out security checks, which makes it easier for airport security personnel to secure the airport."
"It will be very useful for policemen carrying out inspections on suspect passengers as the robot is fully loaded with all security equipment that are all connected to the security operations office at the airport," Brig Rumaihi added.
The robot can detect things being carried by the passengers that show in different colours on the screens of devices with a scanner and send them to the operating room of the department at the airport.
The robot and its devices are mounted on a scooter to ease its movement at the airport and is driven by a security personnel.
The robot was developed by security specialists and technicians at Lekhwiya.
Major Eng. Ali al Rashid, head of Security Technology Department at Lekhwiya, said,"The smart robot has all security devices that can detect any forged documents or money on the spot. It is small in size allowing for free mobility across different parts of the airport."
It can also detect people's heart rate which gives a sign to policemen on the emotional status of the suspect in case he was anxious so they go further with the rest of inspections.
He said there is a small sensor near its foot stand that scans abandoned luggage and alerts the official. It also includes a money scanner, finger print machine in case the official needs them.
The camera near the side wheel scans every passenger, displaying the person's face, heartbeat and identity to the official on a screen fitted near its handle. It also includes telemetry to detect stress.