Tribune News Network
UNITED Nations Secretary-General Antonio Guterres's warning of US and Russian relations deteriorating into Cold War-like situation needs to be heeded. The UN chief spoke out following Russia's expulsion of US diplomats and its decision to close down the US consulate in St Petersburg. That was Russia's tit-for-tat measure against the US's action of having expelled Russian diplomats.
The US decided to expel Russian diplomats in solidarity with the UK over the attempted murder of a former Russian spy and his daughter in Britain. The British government had charged Russia with using a weapon-grade nerve agent in the attempted murder of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal and his 33-year-old daughter Yulia on the British soil. British Prime Minister Theresa May accused the Kremlin stating that the chemical used in the attack had been identified as being part of a group of nerve agents as Novichok and was developed by Russia. May announced expulsion of 29 Russian diplomats after Kremlin refused to offer any explanation in response to the British accusation in the poisoning case.
The coordinated and concerted action on part of the Western allies against Russia in support of the UK wasn't entirely unexpected. Yet it had an element of surprise. The most surprising was the speed of the US President Donald Trump administration's decision to come out in support of the UK. As many as 29 countries acted in coordination against the Kremlin and the NATO also followed suit.
Trump administration's action had an element of surprise because the US's quick decision went against the policy of unilateralism followed by the administration since Trump came to power. The US and the UK have been close allies and the two transatlantic powers have stood with each other over issues through most of the last 20th Century and later.
However President Trump and Prime Minister May haven't had the same level of warmth in relations and close cooperation on international issues in recent times. Also, despite allegations of Russia's meddling in the US election and the ongoing Mueller investigation, Trump has been loath to come out openly against Kremlin and the President Vladimir Putin.
The coordinated expulsion of Russian diplomats by the Western allies and the NATO is the biggest such action in the history. The US alone expelled 60 diplomats and closed down Russia's Seattle consulate. The development is a throwback to the Cold War-era rivalries of superpowers when an action by one bloc was invariably responded to in kind by the other side. Like the Cold war-period, the allies accepted the British version of the incident over the attempted murder of former spy.
However, the UN chief while likening the incident to Cold War situation pointed out a significant difference from the past. He said during the tense years of the Cold War there was a mechanism in place that allowed resolution of the crisis, which prevented situations from deteriorating into war. Those mechanisms were dismantled after the Cold War was over.
As such there is no equivalent"mechanisms of communication and control" to avoid the escalation of tensions."I do believe it's time for precautions of this sort guaranteeing effective communication, guaranteeing capacity to prevent escalation - I do believe that mechanisms of this sort are necessary again", the UN chief said. Another important difference from the Cold War period, Guterres pointed out, was that"there were now"many other actors that are relatively independent and with an important role in many of the conflicts that we are witnessing, with risks of escalation that are well known." During the Cold War, both the US and the former Soviet Union used back channels to prevent confrontations and which allowed resolutions of even the most serious issue like the Cuban missile crisis.
For world leaders who lived through the Cold War, which lasted for 45 years, and the students of international relations, the Western allies' spat with Russia is a d`j'e0 vu. It's time for Washington and Moscow to put in place mechanisms that can be activated during crisis and prevent tensions from spilling over into mutual destructive situations.