Lezima Gomes
Doha
Guests in Qatar are invited to experience 70 years of culinary excellence at the Seasons restaurant at Movenpick Hotel Doha with lunch and dinner till April 20.
The promotional campaign is now on at restaurants at all Movenpick properties globally and includes seven re-imagined popular classic dishes. These dishes are a blend of the old, the new and guest favourites, reinterpreted for the modern palate.
The special menu includes a scallops and avocado tartare, which is a reinvention of M'f6venpick's popular beef tartare influenced by Mediterranean cuisine. This dish is full of fresh flavours and leafy goodness. Another dish is the Salade belle fermi'e8re, a lively interpretation of Salade François, made famous in the 1948 American musical, 'Easter Parade'.
Another dish is called mille feuille saumon & caviar d'olive, a savoury take combining delicately smoked salmon, puff pastry and golden olive caviar. The smoked salmon combined with the crispiness of the puff pastry a bit of cheese and thinly sliced cucumber is definitely a must-try and makes the perfect appetiser. There is also a dish combining mushrooms and vegetables Zurich style, a meat-free version of Zurich-style veal that pairs aromatic root vegetables and smoky shiitake mushrooms.
The seafood lovers' special, Casimir a mix of steamed seafood, fish and sea asparagus, with an assortment of citrus pineapple fillets, paired with wild rice has been included in the menu.
The bare beef burger, Caf` de Paris, is a prime beef cut paired with crispy ultra-thin parmesan-dusted fries.
To end the entire gastronomic extravaganza is the carrot waffle topped with a dollop of ice-cream. This dish is a quirky reinterpretation of the classic Swiss carrot cake and makes for the perfect ending.
"We are very happy to share these delightful dishes as we want people to experience a taste of our Swiss hospitality and also showcase how we stand true to our founder Ueli Prager's vision of doing normal things in an extraordinary manner," said Movenpick Hotel Doha General Manager Sami Aawar.