Hisham Aljundi
Doha
A TOTAL of 150 security experts from Qatar and across the world will take part in the seventh conference of the International Association of Police Academies (INTERPA) which begins in Doha on Monday, the Ministry of Interior (MoI) has announced.
The three-day conference is hosted by Qatar Police College under the theme 'New Trends in Combating Terrorism and Extremism'.
"The event comes in line with the MoI's strategy that security is the key to achieve development," Brigadier Mohammed Abdullah al Muhana al Marri, director-general of Qatar Police College, said at a press conference on Sunday.
"This conference is a great opportunity to exchange experiences in security field with experts from around the world and share the best practices in combating terrorism as well as in organising major events," Brig Marri said.
A total of 42 countries will be represented in the conference, in addition to international organisations in the security field. It is also an opportunity to improve ties with INTERPA members, which would mean having access to a database to the most effective counter-terrorism practices, he said.
"Qatar has been hosting many international sporting events each year attracting a large number of people. Though this conference, MoI can promote its security strategies to cope with the increasing number of major events in the country, especially the FIFA World Cup 2022," he said.
The event also emphasises Qatar's commitment to combating terrorism and international cooperation in this field.
Brigadier Marri stressed on the importance of holding an international conference to discuss the region's and the world's urgent issues. He added that terrorism is a real threat that must be dealt with scientifically, and based on the expert opinions of specialists in security, legal and other fields.
He further said that this year's theme was chosen due to the threat terrorism poses to the entire world, and the need for cooperation to deal with it.
He noted that Qatar is one of the leading countries in fighting terrorism, evidenced by being one of the first countries to adopt a law for facing terrorist acts and extremism.