
Doha
UNDER its Gaza medical sector development strategy, Qatar Red Crescent Society (QRCS) has launched a multi-faceted scheme that involves contracting expert specialists in cardiac surgery, neonatology and urology, as well as building the capacity of health care providers in the enclave.
"We have started two new continuing medical education programs," said Dr Heba al Mahallawi, Health Projects Officer, QRCS office in Gaza."These are the Master of Mental Health at Al-Quds University Abu Dis and the Diploma in Anesthesiology and intensive care at the Islamic University."
Costing $1 million, the two-year scheme will hopefully improve the quality of health care services in Gaza, she added.
Dr Bassam Abu Ahmed, General Coordinator of Public Health Programs, Al-Quds University Abu Dis, said,"The blockade and economic challenges in Gaza have had a negative psychological impact. According to government statistics, almost 50 percent of Gaza children suffer psychological problems and need specialist intervention."
"The new scheme will help both the government and NGO mental health professionals to develop their knowhow in order to be able to offer effective psychotherapy," he remarked.
One of the beneficiaries of HH the Emir of Qatar's Medical Scholarship Program is Dr Lad al Roubi, Head, Department of Urology, Shefaa Medical Complex."I came back to Gaza one year ago, after completing my specialty scholarship in Qatar. I work not only to serve the patients, but also to provide training for my colleagues who could not pursue their continuing medical education abroad," he said.
Last year, the department performed 884 specialised surgeries and 12,884 consultations. Also, a new Department of Urodynamic Testing was inaugurated."With the expertise of Dr al Roubi, now the hospital can accommodate such significant surgeries as removal of kidney, ureteral, or bladder stones," said Dr Bashir al Hourani, urologist."Formerly, these kinds of cases would be referred for treatment abroad. Now, the medical staff is better educated, which is definitely in the best interest of the patients."
Since 2008, QRCS has conducted a wide range of major humanitarian projects in Gaza, worth as much as $110 million, with a view to improving health conditions, saving thousands of lives, and reducing the need to travel for treatment.