
DOHA
QATAR Airways (QA), in collaboration with Hamad Medical Cooperation (HMC), will host a series of events in April to mark Autism Awareness Month.
This year's programme of events includes a series of seminars and training conducted by HMC's experts, with the aim to ensure that QA's cabin crew and ground staff are prepared to support autistic passengers with a better understanding of the disorder.
HMC doctors and therapists will advise cabin crew members on how to effectively support and assist autistic passengers on QA flights. An information kiosk has also been set up at the QA operations center where medical representatives from HMC will distribute informative brochures about the disorder.
World Autism Awareness Day is every year on April 2, with the goal of bringing attention to autism. To mark the day, the national carrier will host an exciting and lively Kids Fun Day at Kidzmondo Doha, where pilots and cabin crew will have the opportunity to interact with children with autism and their parents.
Additionally, to support World Autism Day, QA staff across the airline's network will be wearing blue the official colour of Autism Awareness month and posting messages about how they will contribute to raising awareness amongst the community. During the month, QA staff and cabin crew will be visiting Renad Academy, a member of Qatar Foundation, to spend a day with children with autism.
Beginning from April 1, in-house training sessions on autism awareness conducted by QA First Aid trainers will be given to every crew member as part of their recurrent training.
QA Senior Vice-President Human Resources NabeelaFakhri said:"By equipping our cabin crew and ground services staff with a better understanding and awareness about the disorder, we are helping to ensure that we support all our passengers as effectively as we can."
A special social media campaign will be launched on QA social media platforms with a hashtag #qatarairways#autismawarenessmonth, to foster support and further increase awareness. The airline has also organised a photo shoot with its cabin crew, enabling it to publish autism-related content across the airline's popular social media channels, helping to further increase global awareness.
Corporate Social Responsibility is an important part of QA's values. Last year, the airline renewed its sponsorship as Official Airline Partner to Orbis UK for a further three years. QA continues to be a proud supporter of the Educate-A-Child programme, which helps provide quality primary school education to millions of out-of-school children globally.
Additionally, the airline has partnered with Doha's Shafallah Centre, Qatar's special needs association, to provide special needs adults with employment opportunities at QA.