QNA
Doha
THE State of Qatar joins the world for the Autism Awareness Day, observed globally on April 2, under the theme 'Empowering Women and Girls with Autism'.
The Ministry of Public Health (MoPH), with a number of other organisations in the country, will hold activities throughout the month of April. The events will include workshops on the methodology of communicating with people with autism, in order to increase awareness among parents and employees in health care institutions.
Qatar Autism, Hamad Medical Corporation, Primary Health Care Corporation, Sidra Medicine, Mada Assistive Technology Centre of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, Biomedical Research Institute of Hamad Bin Khalifa University and Shafallah Center for people with special needs, will take part in the activities.
Assistant to Minister of Public Health for Health Affairs and head of national autism committee Dr Saleh Ali al Marri said owing to Qatar's interest in the health of all its residents, it gives great importance to those with autism, to improve their lives. He said that the National Autism Plan (2017-2021), which aims to improve their lives and their families, while the recently launched National Health Strategy 2018-2022 identified seven priority population groups, including those with special needs.
He added that in order to achieve these goals there is a need for intensifying all efforts and for a fruitful cooperation with all relevant parties. He also said the National Autism Plan has been launched as a result of collective action by all relevant government agencies, civil society organisations and families of autistic people, and is also being implemented through this fruitful and constructive cooperation to improve the lives of autistic people and reduce the burden on their families.
The national plan lists 44 goals to be implemented by 2021. It focuses on programs to increase public awareness, facilitate early diagnosis and improve the quality of interventions and services, as well as continuity of care and meaningful development in education and social participation.