
Doha
THE Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory Authority (the Regulatory Authority) hosted a blood donation drive in collaboration with the Qatar Financial Markets Authority (QFMA), the Qatar Financial Centre Authority (QFC Authority), the Qatar Business and Finance Academy (QFBA) and the Qatar International Court and Dispute Resolution Centre (QICDRC).
The drive was held in cooperation with Hamad Medical Corporation's Blood Donor Unit at QFC Tower, a central location for the QFC entities, in Doha on Sunday.
The initiative aimed to shore up national blood reserves and create wider awareness of the need for regular blood donations, given the short shelf-life of blood and blood products. The blood drive saw enthusiastic participation from a number of QFC listed entities, employees as well as individuals working in offices in the vicinity of the QFC headquarters.
Commenting on this occasion, Michael Ryan, Chief Executive Officer, QFC Regulatory Authority, said:"We are proud to spearhead this important CSR initiative for the QFC entities. Our employees were happy to participate, especially when they understood that every pint of blood collected can help save up to three lives. I would like to thank everyone throughout the QFC who stepped forward to donate their blood. We also extend our thanks to Hamad Medical Corporation for their invaluable support."
Yousuf Mohamed al Jaida, Chief Executive Officer, QFC Authority, said:"As an active and responsible member of Qatar's community, it is important for us that we contribute where we can make a positive impact on our society. We frequently encourage our people to volunteer their time, knowledge and skills to make a difference in their local communities."
Ahmed Salem Sultan, Director of Public Relations & Communication Department, QFMA Authority, said:"Corporate Social Responsibility is a part of our regular sustainable business practices. We partnered with Hamad Medical Corporation's Blood Donor Unit to reach individuals in need of blood. The availability of blood can be a key determinant in saving a patient's life. Among the social programmes we support, there is a special significance for those that save lives."
Dr Mohammed Abdullah al Emadi, Acting Chief Executive Officer, the QFBA, expressed his delight at the large number of QFBA employees who participated. He said:"Our participation in the blood donation drive stems from our strong belief in supporting the Blood Bank at Hamad Medical Corporation and other health institutions. We devote a great deal of time and resources to ensure the development, health and well-being of our community."
Faisal Rashid al Sahouti, Chief Executive Officer, the Qatar International Court and Dispute Resolution Centre, said:"Voluntary blood donation is extremely important and we were pleased to see the large turnout at the mobile blood donation unit. The QICDRC are proud to be part of this campaign to encourage blood donation, knowing that each of us can play our part to benefit the lives of patients in Qatar."