
Doha
OOREDOO, one of the region's leading ICT providers, announced on Sunday the next step in its partnership with global technology company Cisco, delivering solutions that can accelerate advanced connectivity deployments to boost the business competitiveness of Qatar's organisations.
As more of Qatar's organisations undergo digital transformation, they need to modernise and simplify their IT infrastructure, especially to support new levels of Internet access.
The partnership, which also sees Ooredoo become a prestigious Cisco Gold Partner, is accelerating adoption of Cisco Meraki technology running on the Ooredoo Supernet. Ooredoo Business solutions, based on Cisco Meraki products, such as Smart Wi-Fi and Managed Router Services, can ease office Internet deployments. By helping to optimise the user experience and technology infrastructure, business customers can gain hassle-free and more controlled connectivity services.
Yousuf al Kubaisi, COO, Ooredoo, said:"Ooredoo, by extending our Cisco partnership, is serving as Qatar's leading provider of business customer communications needs, from end-to-end connectivity to office networks. We're helping organisations to improve employees' digital experiences, by simplifying the management of office network infrastructure and freeing up IT staff for innovation."
As a Cisco Gold Partner, Ooredoo can access comprehensive sales, technical and training services, which can help the company to better meet its customers' business needs.
Ooredoo aims to grow the adoption of Software Defined Wide Area Network (SD-WAN), and Managed Local Area Network (Managed LAN) services. SD-WAN site-to-site connectivity can offer high redundancy, as well as predictable and reliable application performance and M-LAN can extend managed services to internal office networks.
Stephen Koza, director, Global Service Provider Sales, Cisco Meraki, said:"By using Ooredoo solutions based on Cisco Meraki products, Qatar's organisations are leveraging cutting-edge technology that can optimise costs and improve office network usage. Administrators can use their bandwidth more efficiently, and can deliver secure and high-performance network experiences that are vital for critical business applications."
Business customers can leverage the Ooredoo Advantage, making Ooredoo 'Best for Business', thanks to its breadth and depth of talent, best fixed and mobile networks, broadest portfolio of ICT services and solutions, and trusted partner for 60 years.