
Doha
QATAR Charity (QC) has received more than 370 participations from the preparatory and secondary schools as part of its grand annual 'Future's Writers' competition.
The competition aims to develop young literary talents by selecting, training and honouring short story writers, and publishing and distributing winning stories to the public.
Through the programme, QC also aims to contribute to Qatar National Vision 2030 by preparing a well-educated and cultured generation capable of meeting challenges. It also seeks to spread the culture of reading and develop students' writing skills, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Sports, Ministry of Education and Higher Education, Qatar University (QU), Barwa Bank, Qatari Forum For Authors, 'Khair Jalees' Book Club and Dar Roza Publishing.
Ali Ibrahim al Ghareeb, executive director of the QC's local operations department, said QC seeks to promote and preserve the Arabic language and spread the culture of reading among middle and high school students, pointing out that Qatari students represented 20 percent of all participants.
Maysoun Ali Asida, project manager, said the participations have been forwarded to the judging committees to evaluate them in order to select the candidates for the second phase of the competition, which includes story writing workshops conducted by professors from QU and the Arabic Language Committee. The participants who are qualified for the second phase of the programme will be announced on April 4.
The judging committee for boys consists of Dr Ahmed Safar, coordinator of the Arabic Language Department at QU; Hassan al Nuaimi, Arabic Language Expert; Ahmad al Dukas, Arabic Language Standards Specialist; and Ali al Rachied, head of the QC's Content and Publishing Section.
The judging committee for the girls includes Safinaz al Hasasneh, Arabic Language Standards Specialist; Noor al Hammadi, Arabic Language Coordinator; Shama al Kuwari, a novelist and fictionist; and Aisha al Kuwari, CEO of Dar Roza Publishing.
The first edition of the program has achieved many of its objectives and has been praised by a number of well-known personalities including Minister of Culture and Sports HE Salah bin Ghanem bin Nasser al Ali, QC said.