Tribune News Network
DOHA
The most popular Twenty20 cricket league in the world, the VIVO Indian Premier League (IPL), has a new home across the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) following a major deal announced on Sunday by beIN MEDIA GROUP (beIN).
Under the five-year deal, Star India has awarded the television & digital rights to beIN, which will screen the upcoming 2018 VIVO IPL competition, together with the proceeding four editions of the tournament until 2022.
Commenting on the announcement, Yousef al Obaidly, Deputy CEO of beIN MEDIA GROUP, said:"Today's announcement further establishes beIN's position as the new home of cricket across the Middle East and North Africa. Interest in the VIVO IPL has never been greater and the spectacle is ready made for television, with several innovations designed to engage new fans and bring cricket closer to viewers.
"By adding the VIVO IPL to our existing ECB and CA coverage, we can now provide viewers with top class premium cricket content all year round."
Rahul Johri, CEO of BCCI, said:"The IPL is an initiative that has greatly extended the appeal of Cricket from die-hard sports lovers to entire families. While the IPL has grown each year since its inception, the Vivo IPL 2018 promises to be an inflection point that will truly galvanise its popularity and following.
"We at BCCI are proud to have given the world its most loved cricket extravaganza, and it gives us great pleasure that this time around, beIN SPORTS will take the IPL to millions of fans across the Middle East and North Africa, through TV and Digital," Johri added.
Sanjay Gupta, MD of Star India, said:"To enable the widest ever reach for fans of the VIVO IPL worldwide Star India has tied up with like-minded partners who share the same passion for the game. In the MENA region we are happy to partner with beIN SPORTS for the Vivo IPL 2018 which will enthrall millions of cricket fans across the region on both, TV and Digital," Gupta said.
Since its conception in 2007, the VIVO IPL has grown into one of the world's leading sports and ranks as the sixth most attended sports league in the world in terms of live in-stadium attendance. This year's tournament starts on April 7 and will be broadcast and streamed live by beIN SPORTS across 24 countries throughout the MENA region.