tribune news network
doha
team 'Samla' were crowned Champions of the Ooredoo Temba Championship after a closely fought 9 6 victory against Al Zaeem at the Aspire Zone on Saturday.
The 'Jordanian Community' team finished in third place after a hotly contested match in which they defeated last year's winners Zekreet by 12-8. Mohammed Ibrahim of al Zaeem was named the tournament's Top Scorer with 28 goals.
Winners from 'Samla' received phones as prizes from the event's sponsor, Ooredoo. Whilst second and third place winners received valuable cash prizes.
Sheikh Nasser bin Hamad bin Nasser al Thani, Chief New Business Officer Ooredoo, Mustafa Jameel al Qatami, Senior Director Marketing Communications & Brand Ooredoo, attended the closing ceremony and awarded the winners.
Commenting on the conclusion of this year's event, Mohammed al Hamadi, Manager of the Tournament at AZF, said:"We're very pleased both with the level of competition amongst participating teams, as well as strong attendance and engagement from local football fans. We congratulate this year's winners and wish the teams that weren't successful the best of luck for next year. We had a number of teams compete for the first time this year including 'Samla' and the 'Jordanian Community' teams and they've impressed everyone with their performances. The defeat of last year's champions Zekreet came as a surprise to everyone."
Mustafa Jameel al Qatami, added:"This year's tournament saw great participation from football enthusiasts, with 16 teams taking part. Our support for this tournament stems from Ooredoo's strategy to support various sports, community and educational activities around Doha. As the saying goes healthy body, healthy mind. I'd like to take this opportunity to thank everyone from Aspire Zone Foundation for organising the event and contributing to making it a big success. We'll certainly be taking part in future events with AZF. We're already talking about how to build on this year's success and introduce bigger and better surprises next year."
The 'Ooredoo Temba' football tournament was played on Aspire Zone's five a side football pitches. What also differentiates these five-a-side pitches is the caged net that surrounds them on all sides designed to prevent the ball from leaving the field. That means matches are played without corner strikes or throw-ins.
Commenting on the tournament, Mohammed Ahmed, captain of the winning side Samla said:"This is the first time that we've participated in the tournament, and we're very pleased with our performance. The level of competition was very high, particularly Al Zaeem, who were an extremely tough team to beat. I think we can attribute our victory to our teamwork."