Asif Iqbal
Doha
Qatar's robust arbitration law has increased investors' confidence in the Qatari economy and is contributing to fostering the investment climate in the country, Qatar Chamber (QC) Chairman has said.
"The existence of arbitration law is playing an important role in creating a competitive and diversified economy and is in line with Qatar National Vision 2030, which seeks to build competitive and diversified economy," Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim al Thani said while addressing the third International Arbitration Conference in Doha on Tuesday.
The two-day event is being held under the patronage of the Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdulla bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani. The inauguration was attended by Minister of Justice HE Hassan Lahdan Saqr al Mohannadi.
Sheikh Khalifa, who is also the Chairman of Qatar Chamber's Qatar International Centre for Conciliation and Arbitration (QICCA), said the biannual conference is a perfect opportunity for participants to discuss arbitration developments and regulations as well as its impact on investment climate.
Underlining the importance of arbitration, Sheikh Khalifa said it is the best mechanism to solve disputes in rapid and secure manner as it provides fair solution for disputing parties to reach settlement in accordance with legal and organisational framework.
Sheikh Khalifa noted that the issuance of Arbitration Law last year went a long way in propagating an arbitration culture among the business community, making arbitration an effective and active legal instrument.
QICCA Board Member Sheikh Thani bin Ali al Thani said the centre will soon adjust its arbitration rules to keep pace with the new trends.
Sheikh Thani said Qatar is the first country in the world to organise a conference on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards, also known as New York Convention.
He said the conference is a high-level legal intellectual meeting, focussing on the Qatari arbitration law issued a year ago."Qatari arbitration law was created with the aim of achieving swift justice."