Tribune News Network
Doha
Qatar has become a role model for long-term strategic planning for small countries' security, according to a report published by Al Jazeera Center for Studies.
Published under the title"Qatari Model and Review of Small States' Security Theory" by Rory Miller, professor of governance and state administration at Georgetown University in Qatar, the report said Qatar's model contradicts the view of some political scholars that small states tend to neglect long-term planning to ensure short-term internal stability or that small states are essentially political entities that adopt reaction behaviour.
The report stressed that Qatari leadership has rejected the notion that small states can be restricted. In this respect, Qatar's respect for its sovereignty has gained the respect of the international community.
Having compared the resources available in Qatar to the ones in the blockading countries, Miller said Doha was able to offset the plans of the siege countries to undermine its security and sovereignty.
He said the disparity in size and capabilities between Qatar and the blockading countries is obvious. The population of the siege countries is 55 times more than that of Qatar, the geographical area of the siege countries is 279 times that of Qatar.
The expenditure of the siege countries on military equipment is a about 16 times that of Qatar as per 2015 indicators.
Despite the great disparity, Qatar succeeded in managing the crisis during the first few months and worked on achieving its strategic goals including import of vital materials, opening of new commercial routes and ensuring that its aircraft continue to fly in the international airspace.
Qatar also used its financial wealth to conclude huge agreements with external partners and enhanced its bilateral relations.
Moreover, Qatar has clearly demonstrated that while military power is highly vital to national security, the intelligent employment of economic power can also play an important role in contributing to the stability of a small country during the times of crisis.