Ayeni Olusegun
Doha
Al Gharafa will host Al Jazira on Tuesday in a must-win AFC Champions League Group A encounter at Thani Bin Jassim Stadium. Both teams are level on five points with two games to play. Saudi club Al Ahli leads the group with eight points.
Al Jazira claimed an entertaining 3-2 victory when the pair clashed on Matchday One but the UAE side have not won since, while the Cheetahs have won one and drawn two since that defeat.
The hosts have won all five of their home games on the continent against Emirati opposition, while the visitors have not won in nine AFC Champions League matches on the road.
Al Gharafa coach Bulent Uygun, who has brought about a change in the club since his appointment in December, said his players are poised for victory despite suffering injuries to top players. The Cheetahs will be without defender Rubert Jose on Tuesday.
The Venezuelan defender sustained a thigh muscle injury during a recent training session.
Meanwhile, the trio of Mehdi Taremi, Diego Amado and Saeed Al Haj underwent physical tests to determine their readiness for the game.
"We are ready for the match and God willing, we hope that luck will be our ally to win this important match, although we suffer many injuries.
"The team will have to make changes and our jobs as coaches is to analyse the players we have and we will seek the best formation," Uygun told a press conference on Monday.
Defender Yousef Miftah also highlighted the importance of the match to the club's season.
"The match against Al Jazira is an important match and our goal is clear; getting the three points because it will all but seal our qualification into the next round."
Another Qatar team Al Duhail, will look to continue their incredible unbeaten run in the competition as they travel to Iran to take on Zob Ahan. The Red Knights have cruised through Group B, replicating the form they have shown all season in the domestic league.
Al Duhail coach Djamel Belmadi, who has won every domestic trophy with the club, has his eyes set on the big prize missing from his collection.
"We are playing our fifth match in the group and we have four victories and we are looking for the fifth. Despite that we have qualified to the second round, we will play to win because we want to continue achieving victories," Belmadi said.
The former Algerian midfielder also played down talk of players being tired after the two-week international break.
"During the international break, a lot of our players represented their national teams, and this will be the team's first match after that. They all returned healthy and I hope we will put on a strong performance."