Tribune News Network
Doha
The Qatar economic tour across US cities kicked off on Monday in Miami, Florida, with the participation of Minister of Economy and Commerce HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani, who leads the Qatari delegation.
The tour will bring Qatari officials to Miami, Florida; Washington DC, Columbia; Charleston, South Carolina and Raleigh, North Carolina.
Sheikh Ahmed and the accompanying delegation will meet business leaders and officials to highlight and bolster prospects for economic, trade and investment cooperation.
The Qatari delegation includes representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, Ministry of Energy And Industry, Qatar Investment Authority, Qatar Chamber, Qatar Airways, Qatar Foundation, Doha Film Institute, Qatar Stock Exchange, Free Zones Authority, Qatar Financial Centre, BeIN SPORTS , the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy , Qatar National Bank , Al Manteq Company, Qatari Diar, Katara Hospitality and Qatar Tourism Authority in addition to several major bodies from Qatar. Sheikh Mishal bin Hamad al Thani, Qatar's ambassador to the US, will be there.
Sheikh Ahmed said,"Over the past decade, Qatar has cemented its partnership with the US in the form of direct investments, joint ventures and trade deals. These investments have contributed to the creation of countless new opportunities for investors and businessmen from both countries."
"More than 658 American companies are operating in Qatar of which 117 fully-owned US companies. The volume of US investments in Qatar amounts to QR26.3 billion."
On Wednesday, Miami City will host the Qatar-US Economic Forum, which will bring together over 200 businessmen and Qatari officials, along with 200 businessmen and CEOs of major US firms.
The tour will bring Qatari officials to a number of US cities that have seen a surge in Qatari investments. They include Miami in Florida, Washington DC in Columbia, Charleston in South Carolina and Raleigh in North Carolina. The tour will feature economic forums, bilateral discussions, meetings between Qatari businessmen and their American counterparts, and round table discussions in the fields of real estate, investment, hospitality, tourism, hotel, technology, health, medicine, banking, law, public-private partnerships and infrastructure projects.
Exhibitions on Qatar will also be organised on the sidelines of the economic tour in the US cities that will be visited.
The US-Qatari bilateral economic relations have grown significantly since the signing of the Trade and Investment Framework Agreement (TIFA) in 2004.
Today, the US is considered as a strong trading partner with a volume of $6 billion and is the primary source for Qatari imports. In 2017, 16 percent of Qatar's imports came from the US.
In 2015, Qatar Investment Authority pledged to invest $45 billion over a five-year period of which $10 billion will be invested in the US infrastructure.
Qatar's partnership with, and support for, the American people extends beyond bilateral trade, and encompasses humanitarian projects.