Reuters
WASHINGTON
President Donald Trump declared as"dead"on Monday a program that protects immigrants brought to the United States illegally as children and pressed Congress to"immediately"pass legislation to secure the US border with Mexico.
Trump, who has taken a hard line on legal and illegal immigration as president, said in September he was terminating the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) program, but gave the Republican-controlled Congress until March 6 to replace it. Congress failed to meet that deadline, but courts have ruled the program can remain in place for now.
"DACA is dead because the Democrats didn't care or act, and now everyone wants to get onto the DACA bandwagon,"the Republican president said in a Twitter post.
It was unclear whether Trump, in any new immigration legislation, would support safeguards for people protected by DACA. The White House did not respond to requests for comment on Trump's tweets.
DACA shielded hundreds of thousands of immigrants, often called"Dreamers,"from deportation and gave them work permits.
In another Twitter post, Trump wrote,"Congress must immediately pass Border Legislation, use Nuclear Option if necessary, to stop the massive inflow of Drugs and People ... Act now Congress, our country is being stolen!"
Congress is in its second week of spring recess, , but taking a hard line on immigration appeals to Trump's conservative base.
Senate Republican leaders have ignored previous calls from Trump advocating the so-called nuclear option, which would involve changing Senate rules so Republicans could more easily overcome Democratic opposition to legislation in a chamber they control with a thin majority of 51 out of 100 seats.
Cindy Agustin, a 28-year-old DACA recipient and immigration activist whose family is from Mexico and who lives in Chicago, called Trump's tweets about immigration and the border"ridiculous."
"More enforcement will not prevent people from coming to the United States escaping war, poverty from their home countries,"she said in a telephone interview.
Trump on Monday also reiterated his call for Mexico to stop people from entering the United States, after saying on Sunday he would terminate a major trade accord with Mexico if it does not do more to secure its border with the United States.
The United States is currently renegotiating the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) with Mexico and Canada.