IKOLI VICTOR
doha
Baghdad Bounedjah scored a brace as Al Sadd secured their place in the knockout stage of the AFC Champions League with a 2-1 win over Al Wasl of UAE in a Group C match at the Jassim Bin Hamad Stadium on Monday.
The Wolves' fourth win in five matches take them to 12 points and now sit comfortably at the top of the standings. Al Sadd will battle it out with Iran's Persepolis for the top spot in the group on Matchday 6.
It appears Algerian striker Bounedjah just cannot stop scoring as he grabbed the opener in the ninth minute before adding the second in the second half. With the two strikes, he is now the tournament's top scorer with seven goals.
Al Sadd got off to a flying start and took the lead in the ninth minute, when Bounedjah intercepted defender Abdulrahman Ali's weak back pass to open space and slot the ball past the rushing keeper Yousif Abdulla.
In the 29th minute, the home team thought they had scored a second goal after Xavi finished off Bounedjah's pass but the effort was ruled out by the linesman after the Algerian striker was deemed to be in an offside position before his headed pass.
Jesualdo Ferreira's side looked to be in further control of the match and went looking for a second goal, putting constant pressure on the Al Wasl defence for the remainder of the first half. However, the result stayed intact until halftime.
After the resumption, Al Sadd had goalkeeper Saad al Dosari to thank, after he did well to keep out a powerful curling free-kick from Ronaldo Mendes in the 53rd minute.
Minutes later, Bounedjah scored his second of the game with a masterful act. Afif came down the right side and sent a cross towards Bounedjah, who responded brilliantly. The 26-year-old used the back of his right heel to re-direct the ball past Al Wasl keeper in the 53rd minute.
The home team had further chances to score but both Afif and Bounedjah were unable to convert. In the latter stages of the game, Ferreira replaced Hassan al Haydos and Abdelkarim Hassan with Ali Asad and Khoukhi Boualem respectively.
Bounedjah had a golden opportunity to complete his hat-trick in the 90th minute but he sent his shot wide.
Al Wasl then scored a consolation goal in the second minute of injury time through Caio Canedo. The Brazilian capitalised on slacking marking inside the Al Sadd box to shoot past the Wolves keeper.
Elsewhere, Al Rayyan suffered a 2-0 defeat against Esteghlal in Iran on Monday. Server Djeparov and and Vouria Ghafouri scored for the home team. The result leaves the Michael Laudrup's team struggling in third place with six points from five matches. Esteghlal leads Group D with 9 points, while Al Ain in second place has 7 points.
Al Rayyan must beat Al Ain in their last match at home in mid-April to stand any chance of reaching the knockout stage.