Tribune News Network
Organisations across the world will mark World Down's Syndrome Day today (March 21). The date for WDSD was selected to signify the uniqueness of the triplication (trisomy) of the 21st chromosome which causes Down syndrome.
The United Nations General Assembly had passed a declaration in 2011 that all member states, organisations of the United Nations System and other international organisations, as well as civil society, non-governmental organisations and the private sector observe World Down's Syndrome Day (WDSD) as Global Awareness Day in an appropriate manner, in order to raise public awareness of Down's syndrome.
Down syndrome is a genetic condition caused by an irregular chromosomal arrangement that results in variable effects on learning styles, physical characteristics or the health of the individual who has the condition. Adequate access to health care, to early intervention programmes and to inclusive education, as well as appropriate research, are vital to the growth and development of the individual. Over the years opportunities available to persons with Down's syndrome have improved to a great extent.
On its 13th anniversary of marking this special day, the United Nations General Assembly will hold the 7th world Down's syndrome congress at its headquarters in New York. The theme for this year's programmes which are led by Down's Syndrome International will focus on how people with Down syndrome can and do make meaningful contributions throughout their lives, whether in schools, workplaces, living in the community, public and political life, culture, media, recreation, leisure and sport.
Down's Syndrome International will also mark two days of events at United Nations in Geneva where individuals and self-advocates with Down's Syndrome will speak up about their rights and talk on the topic of 'What I bring to my community'.
Dr Rajeev Thomas, Founder and Advisory Board member of HOPE Qatar Center for the differently abled children, which is a not-for-profit centre providing educational and vocational opportunities for intellectually challenged children and youth, said that this year HOPE Qatar is the proud partner of Down's Syndrome International, and will help promote awareness about it in Qatar.
HOPE Qatar will be using its social media channels and reach out to media channels in Qatar to spread awareness about the potential of persons with Down's syndrome."HOPE Qatar has always been an advocate for persons with disabilities and have over the last 12 years provided highly impactful education to many children with Down's syndrome and other conditions, and has been successful in integrating many of its students with Down's syndrome into mainstream educational schools," he said."Some of our students have gone on to complete their Class X and XII through open-schooling system, and some others have completed their Diplomas in Computer Applications and are on the path to pre-vocational independence" he added."One of the key challenges facing these youth is the lack of willingness among potential employers to welcome them into the workforce.
As part of the Qatar National Vision 2030 and in particular the Human Development Pillar, there is enhanced focus on persons with disabilities in Qatar and this is bound to open up more opportunities for integrating those with Down's syndrome and other challenges into the workforce."
"Awareness brings opportunities, and this is why HOPE Qatar decided to partner with Downs Syndrome International" he concluded.
This year, Qatar residents have the option to attend the programme live through UN Web TV or watch recordings on March 21 around 10 am New York time - which is about 6 pm Doha time on the United Nations link http://webtv.un.org/
More details about the programme at the United Nations can also be found on HOPE Qatar's Facebook page www.facebook.com/hopeqatar