Tribune news network
Doha
In a further demonstration of its commitment to contributing towards a solid foundation for entrepreneurial skills and capabilities across Qatar and the region, Manateq has signed an agreement with the inaugural Qatar India Business and Investment Conference (QIBIC) to become the official Economic Partner of the ground-breaking summit, the company said on Monday.
Bringing together ministers, officials, dignitaries, VIPs and business leaders from both countries, QIBIC is a new, unique platform that will explore further cooperation across the business landscape between the two old friends, in line with Qatar's national goals to diversify its economy, the statement added.
The first-of-its-kind conference, organised by the Indian Business & Professionals Council (IBPC), Qatar, and Reach Events, in collaboration with the Indian Embassy in Qatar, will be held in Doha on April 16 and 17.
The event will explore opportunities and discuss ways to enhance the deep-rooted and multi-faceted Qatar-India relationship, which has contributed significantly towards the growth and development of Qatar over the years.
"As the leading provider of Qatar's industrial zones, logistics and warehousing parks that offer world-class business environments to the private sector, it is our responsibility at Manateq to proactively support the push to drive the entrepreneurial aspirations of the citizens and residents of Qatar, as well as our close overseas allies such as India," said Fahad Rashid al Kaabi, CEO of Manateq.
"This forum aligns with the strategic objectives of Manateq and provides the perfect platform for all involved to explore potential for growing partnerships and exploring new opportunities.
"And as Manateq, in line with our commitment to the robust growth of Qatar's private sector, it allows us to demonstrate our world-class products and services to those considering exploring business opportunities in Qatar," Kaabi added.
The QIBIC conference will examine in detail the business ecosystem in India and Qatar and will recommend measures for enhancing coordination between the two to achieve more effective results in the future.
President of IBPC, KM Varghese said,"It is encouraging to see such strong support for a conference that further strengthens to long-standing friendship, collaboration and trade between our two countries.
"Our people share a deep bond and QIBIC offers a perfect platform for old partners to bolster their relationships, for new business to be explored from both sides and for new partnerships to form."
Wahab Bou Hamdan, CEO at Reach, said,"We would like to welcome Manateq as a main partner in this conference. As a leading provider of industrial zones and commitment to bolstering entrepreneurism in Qatar, Manateq will play a prominent role in this summit.
"Our partnership reflects the collaboration and commitment we share in working together to facilitate Qatar's goals for a diverse economy."
Thought leadership sessions across the two days of the QIBIC conference will focus on topics such as private sector opportunities in hospitality & tourism, the industrial sector, infrastructure, investment and finances, the services sector, and technology.
The SME and entrepreneurship landscape in India and Qatar will be explored, and there will be further sessions focusing on agriculture trends, strategies, and long-term plans.