Tribune News Network
DOHA
Qatar handed a 3-0 defeat to Syria in the opening match of the 2018 Davis Cup Asia/Oceania Zone Group III in Hanoi, Vietnam on Monday.
Jabor al Mutawa clinched the opening rubber, crushing Rabee Sleem 6-1, 6-2.
Mubarak Shannan Zayid made it 2-0 as he overpowered Yacoub Makzoume in three sets. In the decider, Zayed was dominant and easily completed a 6-2, 2-6, 6-3 victory.
The doubles match was a bit tough but the Qatari pair of Issa Shannan al Harrasi and Mousa Shanan Zayed came through, beating Makzoume and Sleem 6-4 7-6 (3).
Nine countries are competing in two groups. Cambodia, Pacific Oceania, Malaysia and Vietnam are in Pool A. Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syria and Jordan form Group B.
Qatar next play Jordan on Tuesday.
Attiyah to lead Qatar team in Arab shotgun
The Nasser bin Saleh al Attiyah-led Qatar team left for the Arab Shotgun Championship, which is scheduled to start in Rabat on Tuesday.
Attiyah, a former Olympic Games skeet bronze medallist and triple Asia champion, is one of the 14 members representing Qatar.
Qatar Shooting and Archery Association Secretary-General Majid al Naimi is the head of the squad and Al Anoud al Naimi is the administration manager.
The participating teams are: Kuwait, Oman, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Algeria, Lebanon, Iraq, Libya, Palestine and hosts Morocco.
The shooters are:
Skeet: Nasser bin Saleh al Attiyah, Abdelaziz al Attiyah, Rashid al Adba, Masoud al Saleh, Hajar Mohammed, Sarah Mohammed and Reem al Sharshani
Trap: Mohammed Khejaim, Mohammed al Rumaihi, Amna Abdulla, Bana Ali Abdulla and Kholoud Khalaf
Double Trap: Saud al Adbi and Hamad al Marri
Majid al Naimi said the Qatar team is well prepared for the Arab championship under the new rules and he is optimistic about returning with a rich haul of medals."We have got a very experienced team. We had started the preparations of the shooters long time before. We also hosted both domestic and international competitions to fine-tune our shooters further.
"Besides, the Qatari shooters worked hard during training sessions under the latest rules and regulations. The team looks ready for a good show and I'm hopeful that they would come back with a good number of medals," he added.
Qatari boxers leave for Sudan
Qatar's three-member boxing team reached Sudan for the Arab championship.
The weighing-in took place on Monday and the preliminary rounds will start on Tuesday.
Qatar Boxing Federation President Yousuf al Kazim said that the competition will be very strong due to high technical levels of the participating players, especially from Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt and Iraq.
Kazim expressed hope that all the three Qatari boxers would put up a fine show for the country. Regarding the absence of Amir al Saai, who won a silver medal in Poland, he said that the boxer suffered a shoulder injury which will take some time to heal."The boxer is undergoing rehabilitation in order to be ready for the Asian Games in Indonesia."
Kazim, also the head of the Arab federation, said that its executive meeting will take place on April 7 on the sidelines of the competition and will discuss the federation's plans and agenda for next year.