More than 9,000 children in Pakistan are born with a cleft lip or a cleft palate every year and their proper rehabilitation remains difficult due to the unavailability of plastic surgeons and the lack of co-ordination required for a multi-disciplinary surgery. This was stated by Dr Ijaz Bashir, a renowned Pakistani surgeon and CEO of Cleft Hospital, Gujrat, Pakistan.
Bashir was talking to the Pakistani community in Qatar recently during a video presentation on Cleft Hospital Pakistan. Apart from Pakistani doctors, surgeons from Britain, USA, Turkey and Ireland come together on a regular basis by providing ‘free of cost’ treatment and training services in the hospital, he said. He added that these doctors include orthodontists, speech therapists, audiologists and paramedics.
“Cleft lip and cleft palate are correctable birth defects which, if left untreated, can cause facial deformity, speech and feeding disorders and major psychological trauma not only for the patient but also for the entire family,” Bashir said.
The treatment begins within the first few months of birth with corrective surgery and continues in one form or another until the patient is in the late teens. Primary surgery dealing with lip repair at about 3 or 4 months and palate repair at 12 months. This can cost up to $300,000 for the complete treatment.
Giving details of the cleft lip/palate incidence in the world and Pakistan, Bashir said 132 million babies were born with a cleft lip or palate in the world annually. Its incidence rate in Pakistan is one patient in 550 births, as compared to international incidence of one patient in 850. According to a rough estimate, there are around 1.2 million untreated people in the world, of which around 300,000 are in Pakistan.
Bashir told the gathering that such surgeries are normally conducted by plastic surgeons but there has been a dearth of plastic surgeons in the country and even a single operation can change the life of a child. He underlined the importance of timely medical intervention and said that a delay in the treatment can cause irreversible damage to speech.
About the causes of this deformity, he said that genetic factors were thought to play an important role. He said genetic influence was more common in cleft lip/palate combined, than in just cleft lip or cleft palate alone.
Earlier, Dr Zahid Rafiq, a prominent anaesthetist who works for Sidra Medical and Research Centre, said that the idea of this dedicated hospital was conceived by Bashir in 1996 and since then, surgical teams from United Kingdom visit Gujrat twice a year and carry out numerous surgeries on a daily basis.
The Cleft Hospital is a unique institution where complete care for cleft patients is provided ‘free of cost’ for poor patients. It has also achieved world class standards with the help of local and international surgeons from UK, USA, Turkey and Ireland, orthodontists, speech therapists, audiologists and paramedics who have rendered service to provide state of art Cleft Treatment Services and Trainings. Cleft Hospital Pakistan was awarded Global Leader Award in 2015 by Smile Train USA. So far, more than 10,000 children and adults have been treated by this organisation.
Mohammad Idrees Anwar, a prominent Pakistani community member, welcomed the guests and spoke about his first meeting with Bashir in Gujrat, while opening Pakistan Welfare Forum (Gujrat Chapter) last year. He was all praise for Bashir and his dedicated team for their role in alleviating patients’ misery, as also that of their families, thus bringing smiles and confidence on the faces of many people.