QNA
Doha
THE Advisory (Shura) Council completed its meeting agenda on Monday with a number of members requesting a general discussion session about the phenomenon of the rising shop rents. After extensive discussion, the council decided to refer the matter to the Services and Public Utilities Committee for consideration and to report thereon to the council.
This came at Advisory Council's regular weekly session chaired by Speaker of the Advisory Council HE Ahmed bin Abdullah bin Zaid al Mahmoud.
At the beginning of the session, the speaker briefed the council on the results of the 108th general assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Union (IPU) and its related meetings, which took place in Geneva from March 24 to 28, and in which he participated as the head of a delegation of council members.
Mahmoud also briefed the council on the series of intensive meetings that he and the accompanying delegation held with a number of heads of parliaments in fraternal and friendly countries, heads of delegations and heads of parliamentary groups.
During these meetings, he said, he explained the beginnings and developments of the Gulf crisis and the position of the State of Qatar towards it. He expressed his satisfaction of the understanding with Qatar's position during these meetings and the desire to reach a quick solution to the Gulf crisis through dialogue, without preconditions and with respect for the sovereignty of states and adherence to laws and international charters.
The speaker pointed out that the active participation of the Advisory Council delegation, and the participation of women within the Qatari delegation have been commended and appreciated by the IPU general assembly.
The Advisory Council commended the results of the work of the IPU general assembly, which the council delegation had a role to reach, especially the draft resolution submitted by the Arab and Islamic groups concerning the occupied city of Jerusalem, which the general assembly adopted by a large majority. The draft resolution stipulates the protection of the legal and historic status of Jerusalem and considering the decision of the US administration as null and void under international law.
The Advisory Council expressed its satisfaction with the selection of Qatar as a member of the IPU's Standing Committee on Democracy and Human Rights. The council considered that this choice comes in recognition of the status of Qatar and its role and commitment to international human rights treaties.