Tribune News Network
Doha
IbTECHar Digital Solutions Company awarded winners of the 3rd Annual Sanea Competition national recognition and cash prizes recently as part of National Week of Scientific Research, an initiative of the Qatar's Ministry of Education and the National Fund for Scientific Research.
The Sanea competition was launched by ibTECHar in 2016, and challenges teams of students to translate their innovative ideas into tangible prototypes that solve real-world problems. With sponsorship support from Economic Zones partner 'Manateq' ibTECHar hosted this year's Sanea competition in cooperation with the Qatar's Ministry of Education and Qatar Scientific Club.
The 2017-18 Sanea competition awardees are local high school students whose inventions provide practical solutions to problems in agriculture, health and safety, waste-water management and environmental preservation.
The students presented their prototypes to judges after a six-month journey including four rounds of design, development, review and iteration based on judges' feedback. Competition judges scored projects based on a number of criteria related to the design process, prototype functionality, team collaboration and presentation skills.
Students from Al-Bayan Independent Secondary School for Girls claimed first place in the gold category with 'detect and remove mines', a device that uses drone technology to find and destroy land mines, preventing injuries and loss of human life.
'Infants Smart Bed' presented by students from Omar Bin Al Khattab Independent Secondary School for Boys claimed second place in the gold category with a smart bed that automatically rocks when a child cries, triggers a built-in fan to blow when the child's temperature becomes too high and sends an audio alert to a mobile device to help busy mothers monitor child health.
In third place gold category, Al-Bayan Independent Secondary School for Girls presented 'intelligent watering system', an irrigation prototype that uses sensors to monitor soil moisture and activate a watering system when levels are low.
In the silver category, first place was awarded to students from Qatar Banking Studies and Business Administration Independent Secondary School for Girls who participated with their project named 'vehicle fire', a device which helps to prevent car fires using sensors placed at four places in the car and alerts the vehicle driver.
Students from Omar Bin Al Khattab Independent Secondary School for Boys claimed second place in the silver category with 'virtual weight' a device that demonstrates Newton's free fall law, and is suitable for use as an educational tool in secondary schools.
In bronze category, Al-Wakra Independent Secondary School for Boys presented 'Qatarat', a water recycling system that channels grey water to greenhouses inside homes and institutions to reduce waste, preserve the environment and grow plants.
An agreement was signed between the Ministry of Education and ibTECHar Digital Solutions to deliver a 'Sanea' program.
On this occasion, Assistant Undersecretary for Educational Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, Fawzia al Khater, said:"The achievement of sustainable development in our country depends on enhancing the skills, knowledge and trends of the Qatari citizen. The Ministry achieves this through its strategy of providing quality in education, which is the ideal tool for investment in human capital. Our students represent the most sustainable resource."