ians
Moscow
The worlds governing football body, FIFA, is satisfied with the progress in ticket sales for the 2018 World Cup, which kicks off in 11 cities across Russia this June, a FIFA official said on Tuesday. FIFA Director of Competitions Colin Smith, who is currently in Yekaterinburg on an inspection visit with a delegation of FIFA experts, said the organisation was pleased with the high tempo of ticket sales for matches in all the selected Russian cities, reports Tass news agency.
Smith said he hoped that the high tempo of tickets sales would be preserved in the future until all of the remaining tickets were sold.
The FIFA official also expressed his strong belief by stating that football stadiums in all 11 hosting cities across Russia would be ready for the upcoming 2018 World Cup. According to FIFA, over 1.6 million tickets have been already allocated worldwide for the football championship in Russia.
The FIFA announced in its statement last week on Monday that an aggregate sum of 1,303,616 tickets had been already allocated after both periods of Phase 1 and the first period of Phase 2 of ticket sales.
The organisation announced two days later that a total of 356,700 tickets for matches of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia were sold in one day after the launch of the second period of Phase 2. The second period of Phase 2 of ticket sales, dubbed as the 'First-come, first served,' opened on March 13 at 12:00 Moscow time (9:00 am GMT) to provide sales services until its closure on April 3.
Phase 3, dubbed as the"Last Minute Sales," will run from April 18 up until the final match day of the competition and the remaining tickets will be available for purchase on a first-come first-serve basis. Ticket prices for FIFA Confederations and World Cup tournaments are usually divided into three categories and the global football organization visas the price for each category.
A special fourth category, which is the cheapest compared to the others, was especially introduced by FIFA in July 2016 and was reserved only for residents of the hosting country.
The matches of the 2018 World Cup will be held between June 14 and July 15 at 12 stadiums located in the 11 mentioned above cities across Russia. Two of the stadiums are located in the Russian capital.
FIFA experts satisfied with Yekaterinburg Arena's readiness
Experts from football's gomEANverning body, FIFA, are satisfied with the readiness of the football arena in the Russian Urals city of Yekaterinburg for hosting matches of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, a FIFA official said on Tuesday.
FIFA Director of Competitions Colin Smith, who is currently in Yekaterinburg on an inspection visit with a delegation of FIFA experts, told journalists that the stadium was ready for the World Cup. Smith also said that trial matches must be held at the newly reconstructed facility to test the operational capacity of the football arena, reports Tass news agency.
Smith said that besides the football stadium, which would be hosting the matches of the championship, the FIFA delegation paid particular attention to the readiness of other facilities, including the transport infrastructure, accommodation and airport, to make sure that everything was in line with international standards.
The opening match at the refurbished Yekaterinburg Arena will be played on April 1 between home football club Urals and Rubin FC from Kazan as part of the 24th round of the RFPL 2017/2018 season.