Asif Iqbal
Doha
With investments in vessels hitting $11 billion, Nakilat's LNG carrying capacity has grown to 9 million cubic metres, accounting for 12 percent of the world's total carrying capacity.
"Most of Nakilat's LNG carriers are dedicated to meeting the transportation needs of Qatar's massive LNG industry, providing the country and the world with an important 'floating pipeline' of clean energy," the company said in its annual report released at its annual general meeting (AGM) on Tuesday.
According to the report, all its big LNG vessels are currently used by local gas producer Qatargas, while the smaller ones serve the international shipping markets.
Addressing shareholders, Nakilat Vice-Chairman Ahmad Saif al Sulaiti said the company proved its resilience in 2017 by successfully deploying necessary steps towards maintaining its global leadership in LNG transportation.
Sulaiti said the company is committed to business excellence by taking calculated steps.
As a result, Nakilat ensured there were no interruptions to its worldwide operations despite global challenges and the unjust blockade imposed on Qatar by some of its neighbours, he said.
Even during these tumultuous times, Sulaiti noted, Nakilat has not missed a single shipment delivery.
"Nakilat prudently charted its course and pursued a long-term business consolidation and diversification strategy, which included the expansion of its ship management activities.
"The transition of 10 additional LNG carriers to Nakilat's in-house managed fleet during the year has led to significant improvement in the company's fleet operational efficiency, to 99.7 percent, and reduction of operational costs," Sulaiti added.
Chief Executive Officer Abdullah Fadhalah al Sulaiti said the company's financial results are a true reflection of the company's strength and resilience. He said the company has withstood the challenging business environment and has successfully capitalised on profitable growth opportunities.
It has also pursued cost optimisation to achieve efficiency and greater synergy across the organisation, he added.
"These measures, coupled with our long-term agreements with well-established charterers, have allowed Nakilat to maintain a steady cash flow," Fadhalah said.