Asif Iqbal
Doha
Minister of Development Planning and Statistics HE Saleh bin Mohamed al Nabit said Qatar has committed itself to the pillars of economic development to create a high quality economic and technological infrastructure, so as to be able to become a centre of economic and research activities.
He was addressing the first International Business Conference organised by the CCQ in Doha on Tuesday.
The minister said the country aspires to make the economy sustainable in the next five years by continuing the economic diversification efforts, private sector development and foreign investment expansion, especially those looking for creativity and innovation and setting the right investment environment to encourage investments in sectors that accelerate the transition towards a knowledge-based economy.
'Qatar offered special gas price to UAE'
Economic Advisor at Emiri Diwan Dr Ibrahim Ibrahim said Qatar has always believed in cooperation and welfare of all Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries and a testament to this is the fact that the Qatar has been providing gas to the UAE at a very competitive price compared to any other country.
"When the agreement to export gas to the UAE through a pipeline was made, Qatar offered a very special price. Many people were opposed to this idea, but for a GCC country, we went ahead with the deal," Dr Ibrahim said while addressing the first International Business Conference organised by the CCQ.
On the unjust blockade of Qatar, Dr Ibrahim said,"It has been a lesson well learnt. (Now,) fortifying the economy will be an integral part of the National Development Strategy of 2018-2022."
According to Dr Ibrahim, the blockade not only made the country rethink its policy on food security and protect the economy from these kinds of shocks. On the country's development path, Dr Ibrahim said this can be split into two stages with two distinct sets of objectives. He explained that the first stage witnessed the implementation of Qatar energy development strategy while the second dealt with a comprehensive development process.
"The energy development strategy aimed at maximising the yields of Qatar's oil and gas reserves, and the optimal exploitation of these resources. Based on extensive investments, talented staff, forward looking management and the global partnerships, the implementation of this strategy led to extremely successful results."
The economic advisor said the implementation of energy development strategy led to the growth of Qatar's GDP at a high rate of 13 percent from 2000 to 2011 in real terms.
"Qatar realised long ago, even before the collapse of oil and gas prices, that the energy development strategy was not comprehensive and the necessity of transforming into renewable elements of production such as human capital and technology to achieve the sustainable development. That's the reason Qatar developed the National Vision 2030 and set the core pillars of QNV and how to achieve its general goals through the consecutive national strategies," he added.