Tribune News Network
Doha
Ali Mabkhout scored twice as Al Jazira repeated their 3-2 win over Al Gharafa on Matchday Five of the 2018 AFC Champions League Group A to qualify for the last 16 stage.
The visitors took an early lead inside 14 minutes when Mabkhout dribbled past Al Gharafa defender Tameem al Muhaiza in a narrow space inside the box.
Mabkhout then unleashed a powerful strike that rattled the crossbar and fell before Romarinho who was left with a simple header from point-blank range into the empty net.
Ahmed Alaaeldin restored parity in the 28th minute after he beat Al Jazira goalkeeper Ali Khaseif at his near post to stab home Abdelaziz Hatem's cross from the left wing following a Wesley Sneijder free-kick.
Al Gharafa's comeback was completed in the last minute of the opening half when Portuguese defender Diogo Amado controlled Sneijder's in-swinging corner kick and fired between Khaseif's legs from close range to take his side into the dressing room with a valuable 2-1 half-time lead.
Twenty minutes from time, Romarinho returned the favour for Mabkhout, supplying a through pass for the number 7 who struck through the legs of goalkeeper Qasem Burhan from a narrow angle to equalise for Al Jazira. Al Gharafa were reduced to 10 men in added time as Assim Madibo received his second yellow card for a late challenge on Salim Ali.
Al Jazira instantly took advantage and grabbed the winner with virtually the last kick of the game. Mabkhout broke free and rounded the goalkeeper before applying a calm finish to earn his side their second win of the campaign.
The win took Al Jazira to eight points, three clear of Al Gharafa, with a place in the Round of 16 confirmed on a better head to head.
Al Duhail racked up a fifth straight victory in the AFC Champions League after Ismail Mohammad's late strike gave them a 1-0 win over Iran's Zobahan on Tuesday.
Having already booked a place in the Round of 16, Al Duhail rested the star front duo of Youssef Msakni and Youssef El Arabi for the trip to Isfahan. Despite their absence, Al Duhail managed to hold their own against a Zobahan side that desperately needed a win.
Chances were few during the first half with neither side managing to pose any real danger for their opponents. Things improved after the break, with Zobahan coming close to scoring on multiple occasions.
Kiros could have put Zobahan in the lead in the 52nd minute. However, his shot from inside the box was saved by Al Duhail keeper Amine Lecomte. In the 76th minute, Morteza Tabrizi set up Milad Fakhreddini with a cross, but once again, Lecomte showed fine reflexes to keep the effort out.
Then, out of the blue, Al Duhail finally broke the deadlock in the 84th minute with their first shot on target, when Mohammad tapped into an empty goal following Sultan Al Brake's precise pass from the left.
Al Duhail sealed top spot in Group A with a perfect record after five games and will now host Al Wahda in their final group game. Zobahan, on the other hand, will look to defeat PFC Lokomotiv in Tashkent to secure their own place in the knockout stage.