CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
In a qualitative addition to the healthcare sector, two wellness health centres are expected to open in May.
The two facilities ” Muaither and Al Wajba Health Centers ” will be inaugurated by Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani.
The new facilities will take the total number of wellness health centres to five. The existing three are Leabaib, Rawdat Al Khail and Umm Salal Health Centres.
"We are launching the registration and operation of services at Muaither Health Center by April 8 and at Al Wajba by May 13. The official opening will be made by the Prime Minister next month," Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC) Managing Director Dr Mariam Abdul Malik said on Tuesday.
Both the new health centres are of Type C category and occupy an area of 19, 800 square metres. She said there will a total of 25 health centres by May and it will increase to 27 including by the end of 2018.
Dr Mariam said they are aiming to have 10,000 registrations within the first year at Muaither Health Center.
The new health centres will have additional facilities such as ultra sound.
"We normally have ultra sound for expectant mothers but now we will have ultra sound for medical conditions," she added.
The recent launch for the National Health Strategy has placed a lot of emphasis on primary health care services.
On her part, PHCC Executive Director of Operations and Senior Consultant of Family Medicine Dr Samya al Abdulla said Muaither and Al Wajba are located in populated areas and will reduce the load on neighbouring health centres.
"Abu Baker Al Siddiq, Al Rayyan and Abu Nakhla health centres are overcrowded with patients. Most of these health centres have registered about 120,000 patients. And there are high frequent visits daily and probably more than 600 visits," Dr Samya said.
Muaither Health Center and Al Wajba Health Center will help reduce the burden on those health centres, she said, adding that the catchment area for these new health centers will help in diverting those patients to transfer from the existing health centres to Muaither and Al Wajba.
Till now the registration for Muaither Health Center is almost 4,925 patients and out of these 46 percent are Qataris (2,271).
"In the end, it will enhance the wellbeing and health of the population of Qatar," said Dr Samya.