Tribune News Network
Doha
THE Social Development Center (NAMA) organised a launching ceremony for its Aspiration & Achievement 2030 campaign at the Center's premises at Ain Khaled Hall in Doha on Tuesday.
This campaign comes in the context of the new strategic orientations of NAMA that targets youth as they are considered the key engine in the wheel of development in Qatar. The campaign is a result of the requirements of Qatar's second National Development Strategy 2018-2022 which the country has celebrated its launching under the patronage of the Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, in the first half of March 2018.
The campaign, which is the first of its kind, aims to raise youth awareness about the importance of Qatar National Vision 2030, its pillars and goals. It also seeks to motivate them to contribute consciously to achieving the goals of this vision that represents a prosperous future for a great country and its ambitious people.
On this occasion, Maryam bint Abdullatif al Mannai, Acting Executive Director of the Social Development Center, said:"Qatar Foundation for Social Work (NAMA works under its umbrella) has a substantial role in preparing Qatar's second National Development Strategy through its active and productive membership in the advisory group for this strategy. The strategy actually comes as part of a series of consecutive development strategies iterating the goals of Qatar National Vision 2030 with its four pillars represented in human, social, economic and environment development into reality."
Mannai added:"In the context of the strategic orientations of NAMA to support the second National Strategy, I would like to announce the launch of the awareness campaign meant to activate youth participation in achieving Qatar National Vision 2030 based on their knowledge of the importance of this vision."
The launch ceremony featured paragraphs quoting the statements of the Emir His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani regarding youth contribution in realising the vision. Two short films were screened on the occasion.
The event included the announcement of a weekly contest which runs with the campaign, until May 3.