Tribune News Network
Doha
The inaugural Qatar Self Sufficiency Exhibition 2018 concluded successfully, sealing deals worth QR15 million between top-level decision makers and production and manufacturing companies.
The three days of high-level networking and knowledge sharing event saw more than 120 booths from Qatar, the Middle East, France, Germany, Austria, Tunisia, Netherlands, Brazil, Kuwait, Canada, Greece, Iran, Kurkistan, China, Turkey and Finland, sharing 10,000sqm of exhibition space at Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre.
Leading companies and organisations from across the globe showcased how they can support the country's progressive diversification strategy and improve production line efficiencies and operations.
"Ever since the idea for the Qatar Self Sufficiency Exhibition emanated, we have been overwhelmed by the level of support and interest from exhibitors, partners, and sponsors. The high calibre of exhibitors who participated this week exceeded our expectations," said Abdulrahman Saleh al Obaidly, Chairman of Hisky for Tourism and Exhibitions, which organised the expo.
Obaidly said,"The interaction between exhibitors and the visitors was very encouraging, and exhibitors have reported signing deals worth QR15 million."
He added,"This is a clear sign that so many industry representatives from within this country and further afield see the growth and development potential of Qatar, as well as support the country's vision and the objectives of our exhibition.
"The exhibition will become an important event on the annual Qatar calendar. It represents a rare opportunity for visitors to interact directly with so many industry leaders who are helping to shape the country's future."
Assem Abou Fakher, Exhibition Manager, said,"The expo has proved to be a must-attend event for anyone connected with the manufacturing and production lines and those eager to play a leading contribution in shaping Qatar's future direction.
"It provided exhibitors a tailored platform to showcase how they are contributing to the country's development and it presented visitors with a unique chance to get some direct, invaluable facetime with industry leaders.
"We hope the exhibition will return stronger next year and we have already received confirmations from many companies about participating in the second edition of the exhibition."
Among the key sponsors for exhibition were Qatar Development Bank as Official Partner; Gulf Warehousing Company as Logistics Partner; Manateq as Economic Partner; Baladna as Platinum sponsor; Al Obaidly Group as Gold sponsor; Qatar Building Company and Al Qamra as Silver Sponsors; Qatari Businessmen Association as Development Sector partner; Qatar Airways as Official Airline; City Centre Rotana Doha as Official Hotel; and Al Raya, Gulf Times, QBusiness as Media Partners.