WITH the interest of advancing a tech-forward culture, Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU) hosted Assistant Undersecretary for the Digital Society Development Sector at the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MoTC) and an Advisory Council member, Reem al Mansoori.
Organised by HBKU's College of Science and Engineering (CSE), her lecture, titled 'Qatar Towards a Smart Future', was attended by Education City's students, staff, faculty, members of the business community, visitors from the public as well as distinguished guests from the ministry.
Describing innovation as a central pillar of the University's foundation, Dr Mounir Hamdi, dean of CSE, also explained that students are set to benefit from local and international experts' advice and seminars as part of their education at HBKU.
He said:"We are deeply honoured by Reem al Mansoori's visit and talk. We are confident that her vast experience in leading programs that drive Qatar's digital transformation towards a smart future was truly inspirational and educational to all of us."
"At HBKU, we have always held that for a self-sustaining and knowledge-based economy to truly take root, innovation and education must dovetail. The youth are our nation's greatest asset to embracing the digital age," he continued.
Mansoori heads two major departments: Digital Society and Digital Industry Development. As head of Digital Society, she supports Qatari society and businesses to gain the skills, knowledge and understanding they need to use information and communications technology effectively and safely in order to participate fully in building Qatar's economy, as well as leading Smart Qatar 'TASMU' a national program to digitally transform key five sectors in the State of Qatar to deliver economic diversification that promises to deliver impact to the daily life's of citizens.
In her role as head of Digital Industry Development, Mansoori engages with Qatar's national digital ecosystem and building a vibrant innovation sector to support a smart Qatar, enabling the technology sector to leverage local and global digital capabilities, and promoting key investment opportunities with innovation partners across the world to bring the best practices and ideas to Qatar.