Tribune news network
doha
The Qatar Exchange Traded Fund (QETF) will be a liquid, tradable and transparent fund listed on Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE) and open to retail as well as institutional investors, both local and foreign. Hence it is a big opportunity for Kuwaiti investors, Doha Bank CEO R Seetharaman has said.
He was speaking at a knowledge sharing session on"New World Order and Changing Business Model", in Kuwait City on Monday, Doha Bank said in a press statement on Tuesday.
"Doha Bank, as QETF's founder, has collaborated with Amwal Asset Management, which has taken the role of fund manager on the QETF investment offering,"Seetharaman said.
"The QETF will be an open-ended investment fund that will replicate the performance of the QE Index, which comprises the top 20 holdings in the index based on market cap and average daily traded value,"he added.
Highlighting Qatar-Kuwait bilateral relationships, Seetharaman said,"The bilateral trade reached $2.7 billion in 2016, while the size of investment between both countries amountd to $7 billion in different sectors.
"The number of Kuwaiti companies fully-owned by Kuwaiti investors in Qatar reached 132 as of end 2017."
Speaking on the Kuwait economy, he said,"According to International Monetary Fund (IMF), Kuwait economy is expected to grow by 4.1 percent in 2018. Kuwait's central bank kept its key interest rate unchanged in December 2017, citing the need to boost economic growth, despite a 0.25 percentage point rate hike by the US Federal Reserve.
"Kuwait state budget for the year ending March 31, 2019, projects spending at 20 billion dinars and revenues at 15 billion dinars. The allocation in budget will be covering the development of infrastructure, road networks, building the new airport and power generation.
"Kuwait has unveiled a new plan to transform the country into a regional financial and cultural hub by 2035 through 164 strategic development programmes. The country's ecnomic reforms improved its position within the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business Index 2018 to 96."
Regarding technological development, Seetharamn said"The fourth industrial revolution combines advanced technologies in innovative ways, dramatically reshaping the way people live, work and relate to one another.
"Various industries are getting redefined; the health sector can be reimagined; the work space is undergoing changes; robotics and artificial intelligence are going to play important roles and the customer will be more empowered in the digital environment.
"Fintech, internet of things, block chain and artificial intelligence are some of the major technological developments. Robotics, enabled by artificial intelligence and machine learning, is proving to be a game changer that can bring unique operational efficiencies to the financial services industry."
Accelerating digital ecosystem development could lead to cashless economies, he said.
"Banks and the financial regulators should address the trade-off between convenience and security when it comes to digital banking. From compliance perspective banks and the regulators have to deal with questions arising from digital banking.
"To protect customers, thwart organised criminals, and ensure financial stability, prudential and conduct regulators, and legislators, need to ensure that regulation is future-proofed for the digital age."
Doha Bank also believes in Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), he said."Doha Bank Group as part of its corporate social responsibility will demonstrate fair, open, efficient and consistent business practices to mitigate climate change and promote sustainable development," he added.