Tribune News Network
EXTORTIONATE fees charged by recruitment agencies had for long been a big burden on workers coming to Qatar but a resolute and non-compromising approach by the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, responsible for the delivery of the infrastructure for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, has gone a long way in curbing such unethical hiring practices.
In deciding to pay workers building stadiums for the football extravaganza nearly QR19 million ($5m) over the next two years as compensation for recruitment and hardship fees which may have been paid by them in the past, Qatar has demonstrated yet again its steadfast commitment towards workers'welfare.
As part of this exemplary initiative, a number of contractors working on SC projects will reimburse workers as part of a 'Universal Payment' system in accordance with the Workers'Welfare Standards (WWS) which prohibit the charging of recruitment fees. Many of the SC's contractors employ legacy workers hired before the introduction of the WWS which Universal Payment initiative is designed to address.
Unethical recruitment, as rightly observed by SC Secretary-General Hassan al Thawadi is an area of global concern and many countries are grappling with ways to put an end to pernicious hiring practices. That Qatar has found a way to compensate the workers, often forced to migrate for work outside their countries and being exploited by unscrupulous hiring firms in the process, is an achievement whose significance should not be underestimated. The reimbursement of the recruitment and hardship fees benefit over 1,700 workers or 10 percent of those working on SC sites.
2017 has been a crucially important period of ground-breaking progress for the SC in the implementation of the WWS which are a set of mandatory rules to ensure that companies working on SC projects operate in line with SC values. They set out clear mandates regarding the recruitment, employment, living and working conditions for everyone engaged on SC projects.
The SC conducted regular ethical audits to investigate if any of its workers had fallen victim to any unethical hiring practices, and when word spread that action was being taken in the matter, many of them started coming forward with receipts. They had all paid recruitment fees, some as high as QR3,600. The SC and the main contractor brought the recruiting agents to Qatar, and every last worker will be getting his money back.
All of this has been done in a most transparent manner. The SC's Annual Progress Reports are supplemented by annual external compliance giving them an added layer of credibility. While much has been achieved in terms of workers'welfare, the SC has said there is still much left to be done. Such an acknowledgement of the task ahead means the SC, and Qatar, are on the right track when it comes to treating its workers in accordance with international best practices, and also creating an example for hosts of sports of similar scale to follow.