dpa
Gold Coast, Australia
The stage is set for the grand opening of the 21st Commonwealth Games in Australia's Gold Coast.
"We have less than one day to go, less than 24 hours. We are ready. We will deliver the best Commonwealth Games ever here on the Gold Coast," Kate Jones, Minister for Commonwealth Games, said Tuesday."This journey started 3,511 days ago when the state government made the decision to bid for the Games... It'll be a spectacular event."
Organisers have been tight-lipped about the ceremony on Wednesday evening at the Carrara Stadium, where Prince Charles will officially declare the Games open.~
The ceremony will be broadcast to 1.5 billion people across the world, with Australian stars like Delta Goodrem and Dami Im, who came second in the 2016 Eurovision Song Contest, will sing at the opening.~
There will be lifeguards and kids with surfboards. Tonnes of sand have been dumped in the arena centre to create an inland beach, fitting for the city best known for its stunning 57 km coastline.
"We are very much about 'let's keep this a surprise until the opening ceremony tomorrow night.' Why should people tune in? Because it is going to be an amazing ceremony," Jones said.
The ceremony will also feature a 500-piece Aboriginal didgeridoo orchestra - and Jones said one of the highlights is a strong focus on Australia's indigenous Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.~
"We have the oldest living culture in the world. That is something unique you won't see anywhere else in the world," she told dpa.
David Grevemberg, the chief executive of Commonwealth Games Federation, asserted it is"a once-in-a-lifetime world-class event."
"The opening ceremony is going to be a real spectacle on the relevance of the modern Commonwealth and its ambitions," he said.
Most of the 4,600 athletes from 71 countries and territories competing in some 275 events in 18 sports have already arrived.
Mark Peters, chief executive of the Commonwealth Games Corporation (GOLDOC), the official organizer, said 1,800 full-time staff had worked more than seven years for the planning of the event.
"We have 35,000 contractors, delivering services from security to catering to waste management. And there are 15,500 volunteers. They are the heart and soul of the Games."
Out of 1.24 million tickets, only about 140,000 tickets are left."We will sell 95 plus per cent of the total tickets," Peters said.
"The Gold Coast offers world-class tourism experience. We want to make sure the Games is exceptional and memorable for everyone," Dale Dickson, the chief executive of the City of Gold Coast, said.
Matt Longland, the deputy director general of state's transport department, said the government had invested almost a billion Australian dollars (770 million US~dollars) on infrastructure, including a new light rail line.
The public transport is free for the spectators, including all-night operations of rail, tram and buses.
Steve Gollschewski, Queensland police's deputy commissioner, said a comprehensive security plan has been"prepared and tested."
"We are ready to make sure this is a very secure and safe Games... There is no specific intelligence that causes us any concern."