Satyendra Pathak
Doha
Companies operating in Qatar must abide by the wage protection system (WPS) to avoid being banned, a senior official of the Ministry of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs (MADLSA) said on Tuesday.
Speaking at a seminar on 'Challenges facing the private sector' organised by Qatar Chamber, MADLSA Labour Inspection Director Mohamed Ali al Meer said the objective of banning companies which violate labour regulations is to give them a chance to solve all problems facing them and not to punish them.
Noting that the ban is electronically implemented in accordance with legal procedures, Meer called upon the companies to take appropriate measures to meet the requirements of WPS to avoid ban imposed for violating regulations and laws.
The seminar, which saw the participation of officials from four ministries, including the Ministry of Economy and Commerce (MEC), the Ministry of Interior (MoI), the Ministry of Transport and Communication (MoTC) and MADLSA, also discussed various other issues facing the private sector in the country.
In a big relief to private sector companies, MEC Commercial Registration and Licensing Director Ayed Manahi al Qahtany said the proposal of extending the renewal of commercial registration period to five years is currently being examined at the Consultative Council.
Currently, a commercial registration is valid just for one year and companies need to renew it within 30 days of the expiration period.
Talking to Qatar Tribune on the sidelines of the seminar, Qatar Chamber Board Member Ali Abdul Latif al Misnad said the managements of a number of companies active in Qatar have been demanding the extension of commercial registration from one year to five years.
"The government has almost finalised issuing commercial registration for five years and unifying expiry dates of all documents for the same period. Such a decision will go a long way in saving the companies from going through the same registration period every year," he said.
The government is taking every step to solve the problems of the private sector in the country, Misnad said, adding the business environment in the country is very positive.
Misnad said the chamber is committed to providing all possible support to the private sector in order to carry out its expected role in the economic boom in the country.
Attended by a large number of businessmen and representatives of local companies, Misnad said, the seminar is the result of combined efforts of Qatar Chamber and concerned authorities in the country.
The seminar also focused on issues like high fees for separating the branch from the mother company, challenges facing transport and freight sector as well as the approval of competent bodies to transfer the employee from one company to another without obtaining approval from the first company.
Qatar Ports Management Company Strategy & Business Development Manager Jabor Ali al Sulaiti said that all obstacles facing maritime transport arising out of the unfair siege have been solved with launch of alternative routes. He pointed out that services and handling fees have been decreased by 50 percent at Al Ruwais Port to support the private sector.