Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Cancer Society (QCS) has launched 'Your Health: Is Your Responsibility' campaign to raise awareness about thyroid cancer, which is the second-most common cancer among the women in Qatar.
Dr Hadi Abu Rasheed, supervisor of health education at QCS, said:"This campaign aims to raise awareness about thyroid cancer which occurs owing to the abnormal growth of the thyroid cells,located below the Adam's apple in the front of the neck."
On the risk factors, he said:"There are non-modifiable risk factors as it can occur at any age, but the risk peaks earlier for women (who are most often in their 40s or 50s when diagnosed) than for men (who are usually in their 60s or 70s). It also occurs about three times more often in women than in men. Also, having a first-degree relative (parent, brother, sister, or child) with thyroid cancer, even without a known inherited syndrome in the family, increases your risk of thyroid cancer."
Dr Rasheed further said:"A diet low in iodine: Follicular thyroid cancers are more common in areas of the world where people's diets are low in iodine. Radiation exposure: Sources of such radiation include (certain medical treatments and radiation fallout from power plant accidents or nuclear weapons)."
Symptoms of the disease include a lump in the neck, sometimes growing quickly, swelling in the neck, pain in the front of the neck, sometimes going up to the ears, hoarseness or other voice changes that do not go away, trouble swallowing, trouble breathing, a persistent cough that is not due to a cold.
On ways to prevent thyroid cancer, he said:"Reduce exposure to radiation and environmental pollution, genetic testing for patients who have a family history of the disease, preventive surgery for people with a family history of thyroid cancer, healthy diet high iodine (milk, seafood, iodized salt, tuna, egg, yogurt, bananas, strawberries, corn, cranberries and green beans)."
Dr Rasheed explained the importance of early detection and recommended that people examine their necks twice a year to look and feel for any growths or lumps through blood tests to detect any abnormal levels (very high or very low) of thyroid hormone (TSH), thyroid ultrasound, and radiographic scanning of thyroid gland.