Tribune News Network
Doha
HAMAD Bin Khalifa University (HBKU) will present its latest Makerspace initiative titled 'Green Economy, Business and Entrepreneurship in Qatar' to encourage a more informed understanding of ethics and practices of green economies at the Education City Student Center on March 28 and 29.
The two-day event is open to the public. It will bring together organisations and members of the community for sprint, interactive exhibitions, workshops and short talks.
Dr Emad El-Din Shahin, dean of CIS, said:"As the dean of the College of Islamic Studies, I am happy to have initiated this university-wide engagement. Makerspace represents the innovation driven path we have embarked on and this initiative is a perfect example of thinking of innovation at the social, economic and cultural levels."
Various activities are planned over the course of the initiative and all members of the public, HBKU leadership, faculty, staff, students and alumni are invited to attend.
One significant spectacle will be the competitive Makeathon, where groups of integrated individuals will attempt to solve issues relating to waste management, sustainable tourism, environmental awareness and water security.
To aid their mission, selected participants will receive fabrication tools such as microcontroller kits, 3D printers, CNC routers, as well as resources found at the event.
An exhibition called 'Living Off the Land' will aim to present how different people rely on nature to survive, out of necessity or by choice. The exhibition will portray how land may be used in various ways, while respecting the role of nature in our everyday lives. The exhibition hopes to inspire and create an awareness of the possibilities of sustainable survival.
The initiative will also host a friendly zone for children to inspire the artist within as well as provide ample learning and creative activities that encourage upcycling and recycling. Workshops will be conducted over two days and members of the general public are welcome to contribute by bringing recycling material, including water bottle caps, water bottles, newspapers, plastic bags and textiles.
Key speakers will include international, resident and Qatari participants who have demonstrated successful models that endorse green economies and businesses, or have effectively led sustainable lifestyles.
Prominent business startups and entrepreneurs practising ecological models will also be showcasing their work in various outlets.
HBKU has partnered with a selection of sustainability experts, supporters and partners, including Qatar Development Bank, the Qur'anic Botanic Garden, Qatar Green Building Council, Qatar National Research Fund and Al Jaber Green Construction.
"The Makerspace initiative addresses a pressing and fundamental issue supporting the green economy in which growth is channeled through investments that will promote the efficient use of natural resources, reduce carbon emissions, waste and pollution," said Fatima al Khulaifi at the Qur'anic Botanic Garden, a member of Qatar Foundation for education, science, and community development.