QNA
Doha
QATAR Tourism Authority (QTA) considers business events as one of the four major sectors in Qatar's tourism industry, which expects to attract 5.6 million visitors to the country by 2023.
QTA launched the Qatar brand as a destination for business activities two years ago in order to attract international exhibitions and conferences to the country and to highlight the facilities in the State. This contributed to the increase in the number of business activities organised or licensed by QTA in Qatar to reach 30 percent in 2017 from 2015, despite the exceptional circumstances experienced by Qatar and the region, said a report issued by QTA.
Focus on the business sector came in accordance with the national strategy for tourism sector which was announced by QTA in its five-year plan last September.
Director of Exhibitions at QTA Ahmed al Obaidli said the business events sector is expected to attract 5.6 million visitors annually by 2023.
The sector will witness significant changes in the next stage, which will lead to greater integration and flexibility between the responsible parties for this sector in Qatar, he said.
"The business event sector witnessed significant growth in 2017 despite exceptional circumstances in Qatar, which demonstrates the strength of its position as a preferred business destination. It also demonstrates the strength and excellence of Qatar's infrastructure, hotels and transportation development, and Qatar Airways which connects Qatar to more than 150 destinations around the world," he said.
The report cited the 15th Doha Jewellery and Watches Exhibition, which has achieved a great success on several levels, attracting more than 490 brands from 10 countries and 22,000 visitors over six days.
In order to provide comprehensive information about the business event sector in Qatar to international organisers, QTA has launched the first edition of the comprehensive guide for business event organisers, both in paper and electronic formats, including information on Qatar, attractions and tourism activities, a list of specialised companies and local suppliers, as well as event facilities available in Qatar.
QTA also launched Qatar events calendar in various languages, which is a comprehensive guide that includes a list of all events and activities held in Qatar.
The year 2017 witnessed a 16 percent increase in the number of conferences hosted by Qatar, according to the report. The areas of specialisation in conferences were varied: health and medical equipment accounted for 33 percent, followed by education 22 percent, government and ministerial conferences by 12 percent, and sports and sports infrastructure by 10 percent. The percentage of ICT, security, firefighting and defence is equal to 5 percent.