Tribune News Network
Doha
Al Sadd were very much in the QNB Stars League title race till the Week 19 action, but the 3-4 defeat to Al Duhail after a thrilling game dashed their hopes.
It was a last-minute goal by Moroccan striker Youssef El Arabi, who tops the scoring chart with 26 goals, that sealed their fate.
The Wolves then completely lost out after losing 1-2 to Umm Salal in Week 20, where Al Duhail defeated Al Kharaitiyat 5-0 to become champions.
Al Sadd went on to lose 0-1 to Al Khor in Week 21, while Al Duhail beat Al Markhiya 4-2.
However, Al Sadd ensured the runners-up position with 46 points so far, 11 less than Al Duhail, ahead of their final-week clash against Al Kharaitiyat.
Had Al Sadd beaten Al Duhail, things might have been different as only two points separated them going into their face-off.
Interestingly, Al Sadd (27) were two points behind Al Duhail (29) at the end of the competition's first phase.
There is no doubt that Al Sadd gained much from their campaign. They performed consistently well throughout the tournament. There had been a remarkable improvement in their game technically under much-experienced Portuguese coach Jesualdo Ferreira.
They made very limited changes to their squad this season, with all four professional players ” former Barcelona superstar and World Cup winner Xavi Hernandez of Spain, Algerians Baghdad Bounedjah as well as Jugurtha Hamroun and Iran international Morteza Mohammed ” staying.
Al Sadd recruited a number of players during the winter transfer window, namely Hamed Ismail, Ali Faridoun, Sami Sabit, Abdulkarim Hassan and Akram Afif.
Al Sadd won the most number of games (15), after Al Duhail (18). At the same time, they have the best defence, conceding 24 goals, one less than Al Duhail.
They were the second best in terms of the number of goals scored (59) compared to Al Duhail's 81.
Al Sadd can still look forward to many tournaments, such as the Qatar Cup, Emir's Cup and AFC Champions League.
They are the defending champions in the Qatar Cup and Emir's Cup, and will take on Al Rayyan in the former's semifinal that features the elite four from the QNB Stars League.