QNA
Doha
MINISTER of Vocational Training and Employment of the Republic of Tunisia Faouzi Ben Abderrahmane has praised the procedural and legal environment in Qatar, referring to the full and integrated arsenal of laws and legislations that protect foreign workers and their rights in Qatar.
In an interview with Qatar News Agency (QNA), the minister said that the number of Tunisian workers in Qatar is close to 23,000, pointing out that both countries have a shared political will to double this number and push it forward to cover all areas required by the Qatari market, both in public or private sectors.
The Tunisian minister expressed his pride in the Tunisian workers in Qatar and his appreciation of their abilities, efforts and influence in pushing the relations between the two countries forward by proving their competencies in all the tasks assigned to them. He pointed out that problems they usually face are few and are quickly solved by Qatari officials who spare no efforts to provide the residents with comfort and a comfortable life.
The minister said that the number of foreign workers in Qatar is very large due to the magnitude of infrastructure and construction projects. However, the state is keen to find direct solutions to put an end to any problem that may arise, he said, pointing out that fake contract issue that surfaced in the Tunisian community is not problematic because very few cases were reported, and the state has taken quick measures to protect workers and prevent such violations in the future.
The Tunisian Minister appreciated the role played by Qatar in supporting and employing youth in Tunisia as well as financing entrepreneurs and micro and small entrepreneurs, praising the volume of transactions and projects financed by Qatar and their significant impact on the Tunisian labour market.
He added that the Ministry of Vocational Training and Employment and its strategy focus on enhancing vocational training, reducing unemployment and fragile work, and contributing to economic growth through private initiatives and self-employment.
He stressed that Qatar is a key partner in activating this strategy through cooperation, while adding that there is a clear intention and determination to increase the projects in Tunisia in which Qatar contribute and push them towards further cooperation with a focus on projects with large operational capabilities.
The minister touched on his busy schedule during Doha visit where he met the Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani, and Minister of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs HE Dr Issa bin Saad al Jafali al Nuaimi; and during which a meeting of the joint technical committee between the two countries was held.
He also pointed out that these meetings underscored the common desire to push forward bilateral cooperation between his country and Qatar to a greater level. The meetings were characterised by cordial talks and highlighted the desire of officials from both sides to push forward cooperation in various fields, especially in view of the long and distinguished relations between Qatar and Tunisia, and to promote aspects of cooperation between the two countries in the field of vocational training, employment and exchange of experiences and competencies.