Doha Marketing Services Company W.L.L (DOMASCO), the exclusive distributor of Honda vehicles in Qatar, has announced the launch of the all-new 2018 Honda Accord. 
The all-new Accord is the 10th generation of Honda’s perennially best-selling midsize sedan. 
All-new from the ground up, the 2018 Accord is built on a new platform with a lower, wider stance, a lighter and more rigid unibody structure; a lighter and more sophisticated chassis; two advanced new power units, including Accord’s first-ever turbocharged engines, and a new 10-speed automatic transmission. 
In recreating Accord for its 10th generation, Honda designers and engineers sought to convey ‘absolute confidence’ in every element of design and performance. 
Building on the bedrock character of Accord – its outstanding quality, fuel efficiency, packaging and sophisticated driving dynamics – they have imbued the 10th-generation Accord with a new level of emotional appeal and premium quality; an Accord that defies its mainstream midsize sedan status, providing even more refined and engaging performance, a more spacious and upscale interior, and the latest generation of advanced Honda safety and driver-assistive technologies. 
Faisal Sharif, Managing Director of DOMASCO, said: 
We are extremely pleased to launch the 2018 Honda Accord in Qatar. The Accord has consistently set the benchmark in the midsize sedan segment and this new model is no different. With its advanced new powertrain, refined look and enhanced features, the new Accord is Honda’s most sophisticated vehicle yet. We invite all our customers to visit the Honda showroom and take one for a test drive.’ 
PACKAGING & DESIGN 
In reimagining Accord, designers first established the fundamental packaging strategy. Consistent with the “Man Maximum-Machine Minimum (MM)” design philosophy that underpins all Honda designs, the team shrunk the Accord’s footprint while expanding its interior space, at the same time creating more premium and athletic proportions and stance. 
The move to 4-cylinder engines across the line-up is a key component of this approach, allowing a shorter engine bay while also reducing weight and improving dynamic performance. 
The new Accord has a longer wheelbase (+55 mm), a lower overall height (-15 mm), a wider body (+10 mm) and a shortened overall length (-15 mm). A sweeping greenhouse, positioned farther back on the body, completes the new stance and proportion of the next-generation Accord. The combined effect of these changes is a more premium look, highlighted by shorter overhangs, a bold front fascia, a long and low hood, and a visual centre of gravity moved closer to the rear wheels. 
Viewed head-on, the new Accord’s greenhouse also angles in more sharply from the window sills to the roof, further emphasizing the wide lower body, while inside the cabin the seats have been moved slightly inward, which contributes to improved hip, shoulder and headroom while enhancing occupants’ freedom of movement. 

In addition, the longer wheelbase allowed designers to move the second-row seats substantially rearward, giving Accord 48 mm of added rear legroom. Overall passenger volume is increased by 70 litres (LX trim) and trunk space, at 473 litres on all models and trims, is up 25 litres on 1.5-litre and 2.0-litre models. 
Elegant and modern exterior detailing compliments the Accord’s new, more dynamic design. The bold and upright front fascia is highlighted by Honda’s signature chrome wing front grille positioned above a large main air intake and flanked by available 9-lamp full-LED headlights and LED fog lights. The chiselled hood features a distinctive and aggressive raised centre, and the deeply sculpted body sides enhance the visual length and strength of the lower body. 
A new laser brazing process that joins the roof to the body side panels creates a clean exterior appearance with no need for a garnish over the rain channels. The similarly low and wide rear view is finished off with an upswept decklid, distinctive LED light-pipe taillights and available integrated dual exhaust ports. 
POWERTRAIN 
The 10th generation 2018 Accord takes an entirely new approach to performance with its two-new direct-injected VTEC® Turbo 4-cylinder engines with dual VTC – a 1.5-litre 16-valve inline-4 and a 2.0-litre 16-valve DOHC inline-4. 
Both new turbocharged engines produce peak torque across a broad range of engine speed (RPM), delivering smooth and virtually lag-free power for exceptional throttle response and power delivery in all driving conditions. 
The 1.5-litre turbo is mated to a Honda continuously variable automatic transmission (CVT) with G-Shift Control. The new 2.0-litre turbo is mated to a smooth, responsive Honda-designed 10-speed automatic, the first of its kind for a front-wheel-drive car. 
The two new automatic transmissions take greater advantage of available torque while maximizing quietness and efficiency during highway cruising. The redesigned CVT has an 11 percent lower ratio compared to the previous generation version for more powerful launch performance, while the new 10AT is 9kg lighter, with a 43% lower first gear and a 17% taller top gear compared to the previous generation Accord’s 6-speed automatic. 
Turbocharged 1.5-Litre In-Line 4 Cylinder 
The new DOHC 1.5-litre engine in the Accord is a further evolution of the powerplant first introduced in the 2016 Civic With direct injection, a low-inertia Mono scroll turbo with electric waste-gate and dual Variable Timing Control (VTC), the turbocharged powerplant delivers more horsepower and torque than before. 
Power output is increased in part by a new “4-into-2” exhaust manifold that improves the flow of exhaust gas to the turbo. Peak output of 148kw (198hp) at 5,500 rpm and 260 Nm of torque from 1,600 to 5,000 rpm, compared to 141kw (189 hp) at 6,400 rpm and 247 Nm of torque at 3,900 rpm on the previous Accord’s normally aspirated 2.4-litre engine. 
Turbocharged 2.0-Litre In-Line 4 Cylinder 
The Accord’s 2.0-litre engine uses a turbocharger with a smaller, low-inertia turbine for improved low-rpm boost response. With a maximum of 20.8 psi boost, the Accord’s 2.0-litre powerplant peak output is 184kw (247hp) at 6,500 rpm and 370 Nm of torque from 1,500 to 3,500 rpm. 
With peak torque available at a much lower engine rpm, responsiveness and acceleration are notably enhanced. The 2.0-litre turbo also offers much broader power delivery, holding a torque advantage over the V6 that spans the entire operating range between 1200 and 4800 rpm – the engine rpm range that is typically used the most. 
Continuously Variable Transmission (CVT) 
Accord 1.5-litre offers the responsiveness and efficiency of an available Continuously Variable Transmission (CVT). The CVT has smooth and predictable gear ratio transitions and excellent acceleration matched with efficient low-rpm cruising. A wide ratio spread results in strong acceleration performance coupled with reduced engine rpm at high road speeds. 
10-Speed Automatic Transmission (10AT) 
Accord 2.0-litre models are available with a new, Honda-developed 10-speed automatic transmission (10AT), the first of its kind in the Accord’s segment. Engineered for high efficiency with low internal inertia and an exceptionally wide ratio range, the 10AT maximizes the Accord’s performance and fuel efficiency. Compared to the previous 6-speed automatic, the 10AT is 9kg. lighter and has a 68% wider overall ratio range with a 43% lower first gear and a 17% taller top gear. 
The 10AT is designed to be lightweight and compact. It features four planetary gear sets that work together to provide an exceptionally wide ratio spread of 10.139:1 compared to 6.041:1 on the previous-generation Accord’s 6-speed unit. The 10-speed also has substantially faster upshift and downshift performance than the previous generation 6-speed transmission. For greater responsiveness, the 10-speed transmission can make 4-gear direct downshifts: from 10th to 6th, or from 7th to 3rd. 
To maximise fuel efficiency and minimise interior noise, the transmission’s 10th gear is exceptionally tall, resulting in quiet and relaxed cruising rpm. 
Shift-By-Wire Gear Selector 
In the 2018 Accord with 10-speed automatic transmission, the conventional shift lever is replaced with a fully electronic, shift-by-wire gear selector. Park, Neutral and Drive are selected with the push of a button. Reverse is selected by pulling back a dedicated switch. Indicator lights on or next to the buttons indicate the mode selected. As an added safety feature, if the vehicle is brought to a stop in Drive or Reverse, the system will automatically select Park if the driver’s seatbelt is unbuckled and the driver’s door is opened. A steering wheel-mounted paddle shifter system lets the driver take manual control of transmission gear selection. 
Body and Exterior 
In its evolution to becoming a more premium, sophisticated and aspirational sedan, the all-new 10th-generation Accord adopts a stronger, lighter and significantly more rigid body. Its lower and wider exterior proportions express a more premium and athletic stance, accentuated by a longer wheelbase and wider track, advanced LED exterior lighting (including available LED headlights and fog lights) and luxurious bright trim. A choice of new 17- and 18-inch alloy wheels (Three-wheel designs in total), all contribute to a more confident, youthful and sporty sedan. 
The next-generation Accord body uses over twice as much super high-strength steel (29%) as the previous-generation Accord Sedan – along with the model’s first use of structural adhesives – to increase global bending rigidity by 24 percent, torsional rigidity by 32 percent and floor bending rigidity by 12 percent, which in turn improves all aspects of the vehicle’s dynamic performance. Widespread noise, vibration and harshness (NVH) countermeasures, including the flagship sedan’s first use of acoustic spray foam insulation, make the 2018 Accord the quietest, most comfortable and efficient Accord yet. 
Exterior Styling 
Upscale and sophisticated, confident and distinctive, youthful and sporty – the 10th generation Accord design strongly advances the emotional and aspirational appeal of Accord. Designed to distinguish itself as a “class above” its competitors, the new Accord has a wider stance, lower roofline and a dramatically longer, lower hood to achieve improved dynamics, a more comfortable interior and a more dramatic presence. 
Using a slightly shorter overhang than before, the front-end design is characteristically Honda, with the chrome wing grille and streamlined wing-shaped headlights (LED high/low beams on the 2.0 Sport trim), and aggressive air inlets presenting a strong image. Aggressive hood lines add an athletic look to the Accord front end, while thinner A-pillars moved rearward on the body (and relative to the driver’s seating position) improve outward visibility for the driver by 7.9 degrees compared to the previous Accord Sedan. 
The sporty body sides are distinguished by strong wheel arches, an emphatic character line running from front to rear along the beltline, concave door panels that capture the light just right, and strong, flowing lower sills that lend a look of solidity at the base of the body. With the new Accord’s longer wheelbase, the more spacious cabin is even more streamlined than before, with a more tapered rear section including longer and sleeker quarter windows. These windows contribute to a large “6-light glass” cabin that adds lightness, visibility and a sporty flair to the new Accord, while a bright trim strip flowing front to rear above the windows adds a windswept look. 
In back, the brightly trimmed rear fascia is as athletic and energetically designed as the front end, with a slightly longer overhang than found on the previous generation Accord. Here, a sharply tailored decklid helps air separate cleanly from the body, while bright trim (including dual bright exhaust finishers on both Sport & 2.0 Sport trim) add an upscale look, and dramatic light-pipe LED taillights define the Accord as all-new – and all Honda. 
Body Sealing 
The 2018 Accord has a high level of body sealing to dramatically reduce the levels of noise inside the vehicle. This includes weld seals and other sealers to reduce vibration and the transmission of noise. Altogether, these techniques result in a 43 percent reduction in body leaks, which significantly reduces noise entering the cabin in critical areas. In addition, Acoustic windshield glass, an additional carpet barrier layer, acoustic fabric body undercovers, front and rear acoustic felt fender inner liners, and Active Noise Control (ANC) technology further reduce engine and road noise. 
Acoustic Glass 
Acoustic laminated windshield glass helps reduce noise entering the cabin. Tuned specifically to reduce wind-, urban- and traffic-noise frequencies, the acoustic windshield uses an outer layer 
WHERE CAN I SEE IT 
The friendly staff at the Honda showroom on Khalifa Street (near the TV Intersection) know everything you need to know about the new Accord; all your questions will be answered, and they’ll even arrange a test drive of the new Jazz or any of the Honda cars and SUVs that you may be interested in. Call 800 8123 or visit the Honda website