When Something Fishy Turns Into Something Irresistible at The Square Posted on Comments It was seafood night at The Square and the Marhaba Team came prepared (hungry, to be more accurate). The place was adorned in a maritime theme and the smell of the sea beckoned. A long table was beautifully laid with seashells and blue flowers matched with a refreshing welcome drink. The selections were divided into sections – appetisers and salads, main dishes and ‘personalised’ fish; it was quite overwhelming to move around and decide what to choose. Our hosts, the lovely ladies of Intercontinental Doha The City made the evening more interesting. In place of the usual sailor tales, we got regaled with stories of food and funny encounters. We started with the appetiser. This was a bit tricky as their selection covered some very irresistible staples – fresh oysters, sushi, sashimi, smoked salmon, cheese, bread and salads, quite a meal in itself! What we did: We tried everything! What you shouldn’t miss: The fresh oysters and the smoked salmon. 
We then moved to the serious stuff. This part of the buffet offered a lot of options, cooked and served in various ways – steamed, fried, grilled, it will make you think and re-think your decision. Should I go for grilled? Is it tastier if it’s steamed? Our advice: come with your friends and try everything! 
Unusual Finds Our unusual find started with the pizza. What made the pizza a little different is the black thin dough made with squid ink. You’ll hardly taste the squid ink but the pizza was very tasty. Next was the f ish shawarma. Just when we thought we’ve eaten our fair share of shawarma, along came this wrap. Surprisingly, it was good. And then they served the risotto, all black (again because of the squid ink), different and familiar at the same time, and very filling. Squid Ink Pizza Fish Shawarma Marhaba Team has navigated some of the most complicated buffets around Qatar and this night, without doubt, earned our seal of satisfaction. 
Seafood Night at The Square, Intercontinental Doha The City is every Wednesday, 6 pm to 11 pm. Price starts at QAR 225. For reservations or more information call 4015 8888. You can also visit their website through this link . 
Author: Lalaine Turqueza 
Copyright © Marhaba Information Guide. Reproduction of material from Marhaba Information Guide’s book or website without written permission is strictly prohibited. Using Marhaba Information Guide’s material without authorisation constitutes as plagiarism as well as copyright infringement.