Comments 
Qatar Career Development Centre (QCDC), in partnership with the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, will roll out its new Career Advising System (CAS) across public secondary schools in Qatar during the second semester of the 2017-2018 academic year. QCDC is a member of Qatar Foundation. 
QCDC made the announcement on the sidelines of the Career Guidance Stakeholders Platform 2018 , organised under the patronage of HH Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, Chairperson of Qatar Foundation, in partnership with the Doha Office of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation and the Ministry of Education and Higher Education. 
QCDC Director Abdulla Al-Mansoori said that the new career advising system will provide a tailor-made solution that factors in the social and economic conditions in Qatar. 
The implementation of CAS comes within the framework of the MoU that was inked last year between QCDC and the Ministry of Education and Higher Education aimed at promoting academic, career development, and career guidance-related activities. 
Fawzia Al-Khater , Assistant Undersecretary for Educational Affairs at the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, said that career guidance plays an important role in the academic and career journeys of students, helping youth discover their talents and develop their skills to meet the demand for skilled professionals in various sectors. 
The MoU between the Ministry and QCDC culminated in several training programmes including intensive career guidance trainings targeting academic and career counselors across public schools in Qatar. The agreement eventually laid the foundations for implementing a new Career Advising System developed by QCDC to guide grade 10 students plan their academic and career paths. 
The nationwide implementation of CAS is a first of its kind initiative in the Middle East. 
CAS was developed by QCDC in cooperation with Kuder Inc , a world leader in career planning services, and various government entities, for the purpose of integrating specialised IT solutions into the career guidance framework in Qatar. 
For more information about CAS, visit the QCDC website at qcdc.org.qa .