Marhaba Motoring Reviews the 2018 Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross Posted on Comments 
Mitsubishi has been building SUVs for longer than anyone else in the auto industry; with this in mind and the increasing demand for more compact high-riding family wagons, it is not surprising to see the Eclipse Cross emerge as another SUV to add to Mitsubishi’s already wide range. 
The Eclipse Cross is Mitsubishi’s first all-new car in a few years and the styling, both outside and in, is up-to-the-minute modern; it’s right in the middle of the booming market segment for compact SUVs and it brings Mitsubishi’s reputation for durability and economy. 
It certainly feels solid and it is significant that this model is made in Japan where good quality is not negotiable. 
Less noticeable than the styling but perhaps more important is the new turbocharged 1.5-litre inline-four under the bonnet. Part of a new engine family, it puts out 150 horsepower and 184 lb-ft of torque. A sign of a good engine is where the torque starts to work and this engine starts from a low 2000 rpm which is great for negotiating traffic in town. The engine is smooth and sounds pleasant, pulling without complaint from about 1500 rpm and then really coming to life. Moving the shift lever over to the left into its manual gate gives the ability to lock in one of eight preset ratios, allowing you to keep the turbo on boil and deliver on forced induction’s promise as a substitution for a larger, naturally aspirated engine. 
On the other hand, for the economy minded – a rapidly increasing number these days – there is an Eco mode to make sure you get full value from your petrol purchases Plus the engine is quite content on regular unleaded petrol – another saving! 
The Eclipse Cross is clever in terms of seating space and cargo-carrying practicality. The 60/40 split-folding rear seat slides about 20 centimetres forward and back to make space between rear legroom and luggage capacity, and the rear seat back is adjustable. 
Mitsubishi with the Eclipse Cross has made a strong commitment to its future as a brand with a strong focus on providing excellent value for money, at point of sale and over the life of the car. ENGINE 1.5 litre 16-valve DOHC MIVEC with turbocharger; with electronic direct fuel injection MAX POWER 150 hp (110 kW) @ 5,000 rpm MAX TORQUE 250 Nm (184 lb-ft) from 2,000 rpm MAX SPEED 195 kph TRANSMISSION Advanced CVT supports smooth, powerful acceleration with new step shift control EXTERIOR Dynamic lines convey a youthful sense of energy; aggressive front grille, sloping roofline and unique double rear window give a coupé-like appearance; deeply sculpted lines and good use of polished chrome enhance its look of perceived quality INTERIOR The new generation interior with touch-friendly materials create a thoroughly modern atmosphere; attractive black and metal trim; seats are comfortable with plenty of room front and back; visibility is good; 7.0″ touchscreen with Apple CarPlay and Android Auto; Bluetooth technology, dual USB ports; six speakers provide great Hi-Fi from the Rockford Fosgate premium sound system; steering wheel controls SAFETY/SECURITY Seven front, side and curtain SRS airbags; Active Stability Control; ABS and driveline traction control; blind spot warning; lane departure warning; rear cross traffic alert; misacceleration mitigation; tyre pressure monitoring system; keyless operation; engine start button; disc brakes all round; high strength energy-absorbing reinforced RISE body. WHERE CAN I SEE IT Qatar Automobiles Co on Salwa Road offer very competitive prices and will be pleased to arrange a test drive of the new Mitsubishi Eclipse Cross or any of its SUVs and cars for Marhaba readers. Call 4422 7555 or visit mitsubishiqatar.com