QCDC Wraps Up Second Edition of Career Guidance Stakeholders Platform Posted on Comments 
Qatar Career Development Centre (QCDC) wrapped up the second edition of its Career Guidance Stakeholders Platform. 
The event, which was held under the theme ‘Moving Operationally to Strategically Enhance Career Guidance in the State of Qatar’ , brought together a large number of senior government officials and ministers at the Qatar National Convention Centre recently. 
Organised in partnership with the Doha Office of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) and the Ministry of Education and Higher Education , the event comes within the framework of QCDC’s commitment to delivering on the priorities stipulated by The Emir, in the address he delivered in July 2017, when he stressed the importance of investing in the development of national human capital. 
QCDC Director Abdulla Al-Mansoori said that nation-building requires a diverse set of competencies, skills, and jobs to ensure self-sufficiency when it comes to the local labour force required to bolster the economy. 
Many professions that young people may choose to pursue in the future have yet to exist. Raising awareness about various options and how to obtain more information about future careers are key elements of national career development and are at the core of our mission at QCDC.’ 
He said that Qatar is currently well positioned to develop career guidance programmes and initiatives that instill career guidance within the nation’s social and economic fabric. QCDC is collaborating with the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, UNESCO, and with public and private institutions to create a framework for the development of standards and policies for career guidance at the national level. 
The Career Guidance Stakeholders Platform event brought together more than 250 participants from Qatar and around the world. Participants included policymakers, decision-makers, and senior executives from international organisations and government institutions. 
Representatives from educational institutions and national talent development committees in institutions like Hamad Medical Corporation, Qatar Petroleum, Sidra Medicine, and Qatar Airways also participated in the event. 
For more information about QCDC, visit their website at qcdc.org.qa . Related Link: