AFP
Memphis
Am eric ans on Wednesday marked 50 years since the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr, a day seared into the national consciousness that transformed civil rights leader into a symbol of the fight for racial equality.
Demonstrators rallied in Memphis, Tennessee where the pastor and Nobel Peace Prize Winner was slain on the balcony of his motel by a white supremacist sniper on April 4, 1968, as well as in Washington where he delivered his historic “I Have a Dream” speech.
“When we look at the state of race relations, we’ve made dramatic progress in 50 years -- but we’re nowhere near where we need to be,” King’s activist son, Martin Luther King III, told AB C’s Good Morning America from Memphis, where he was taking part in a symbolic march.
“I think he’d be disappointed with some of discourse that we see,” said King III, although he added that his father would “be very excited” by today’s activist movements including Black Lives Matter, the #MeToo campaign for women’s rights, and studentled movements against gun violence. “He would know that we as a nation can, must and will do better.”
Now lionised for his heroic campaigns against racism and segregation, King was a radical activist who with mantra of non-violence campaigned against poverty, income equality and US wars abroad.
His January 15 birthday is celebrated as a US holiday and a 30-foot statue in his likeness towers in Washington as a tribute to his life and work.
On the anniversary’s eve prominent civil rights activist Jesse Jackson -- speaking from Memphis’s Lorraine Motel, said “the sore is still raw” from the fatal shooting. “It’s always a source of pain and anxiety,” Jackson said. “You take the scab off and the sore is still raw. It happened so suddenly, in the middle of a conversation, on the way to dinner. He’ll always be 39.”
But his legacy, Jackson said, survives in hearts, minds and actions of demonstrators today wielding flags of racial, social and economic justice.
“You can fight to stop loop of violence,” Jackson said. “We are too blessed to be so violent as a nation.” Today’s young Americans “must have rational sense to choose non-violence and to go another way,” he said.
King catapulted into national spotlight by taking lead on a year-long boycott against racial segregation on local buses. Americans remember Martin Luther King Jr, 50 years on Thousands gather for the I AM 2018 March and Rally outside the AFSCME headquarters during events surrounding the 50th anniversary of the death of civil rights leader Martin Luther King Jr. in Memphis, Tennessee, on Wednesday.