IKOLI victor
doha
Al Duhail coach Djamel Belmadi expressed his delight over his side marching into the knockout stage in the AFC champions League after securing their fifth victory in a row.
Ismail Mohammad's late strike gave them a 1-0 win over Iran's Zobahan in their Matchday Five clash on Tuesday.
Belmadi said in the post-match press conference:"We knew that the match will be difficult but we performed as expected. I congratulate the players on the victory and their great performance."
Al Duhail could possibly face a potential home rival Al Rayyan in the knockout stage, a match the Algerian tactician described:"It will be a difficult match and any team we will face at this stage will be difficult. We have to be ready to face any team in the second round of the championship."
The slim win is Al Duhail's second leanest scoreline in over 25 matches this season. Al Duhail had rested the star front duo of Youssef Msakni and Youssef El Arabi for the trip to Isfahan.
"We had many chances in the match, while Zob-Ahan did not have the same number of opportunities. We could have scored two goals at the end of the match but the most important thing is that we secured victory without a loss in the group."
Meanwhile, Al Gharafa coach Bulent Uygun has blamed Jordanian referee Adham Makhadmeh for some of his decisions.
Gharafa lost 3-2 at home to UAE's Al Jazira on Tuesday.
"Our goal was to win the match and make our fans happy but some of the referee's decisions were not favourable.
"Some of the players of Gharafa were wrong. We suffered because some players got injured and Mahdi Taremi and Sneijder got injured.
"I hope to be successful in the box and the ability to compete strongly in the Asian game next season and to ask him about some mistakes in the team," said Bulent.
"I take responsibility as a coach, but there are some facts to be mentioned regarding the players' basic skills. There are young players who came to the first team and they lack some basic skills in football and this is present in all Qatari clubs," he added.