Tribune News Network
Doha
The total value of US exports and confirmed orders by Qatar amounted to $145.8 billion, Minister of Economy and Commerce HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani said in Miami on Wednesday.
This has led to the creation of one million US jobs that depend on America's business with Qatar, the minister said while addressing the Qatar-US Economic Forum.
Qatar Airways is spending around $92 billion to buy 332 US-made aircraft, which alone helped generate more than 527,000 jobs, Sheikh Ahmed told a packed hall that comprised some of the prominent leaders in the US and Qatar.
Mayor of Miami, Florida, Carlos Jimenez, Mayor of Miami Francis Suarez, Qatar Chamber Chairman Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani, Qatari Businessmen Association (QBA) Chairman Sheikh Faisal bin Qasim al Thani, US-Qatar Business Council President Anne Patterson and more than 200 businessmen and Qatari officials participated in the forum.
The minister said Qatar has been increasing its investment in the US, which includes partnerships with several US companies such as ExxonMobil, ConocoPhillips and Raytheon.
Highlighting the Qatari private sector's investments in the US, Sheikh Ahmed said it has pumped in more than $5 billion in technology, hospitality, real estate and home trade. These investments have helped the US economy, he said, noting that Florida was one of the most attractive destinations for these investments.
The minister said international trade and investments are a major part of Qatar's future growth and economic diversification policy.
"The United States is one of the largest and most important trading partners of the State of Qatar."
The trade volume between the two countries reached $6 billion in 2017, with the US achieving a surplus of $4 billion.
The US, the minister said, is the first source of imports for Qatar in 2017, with the country importing 16 percent of its total imports from America. In the past 10 years, the volume of trade between the two countries has doubled from $3 billion to $6 billion.
Speaking about the economy of Qatar, Sheikh Ahmed said Qatar registered positive growth despite an unjust siege imposed by some of its neighbours since last year.
Qatar's gross domestic product (GDP) in 2017 rose to $ 220 billion against $218 billion in 2016. The real GDP growth at constant prices stood at around 2 percent in 2017, which was better than expected, he added.
Citing the latest World Bank reports, Sheikh Ahmed said Qatar's real GDP growth is expected to rise to around 2.8 percent in 2018, the highest in the GCC.
QBA Chairman Sheikh Faisal said Qatar has been able to tide over the effects of the"illegal and unfair" siege under its wise leadership.
By establishing a number of strategic ports around the world, Qatar has reinforced its status as an important trading centre in the region," he said, adding that the Qatar's air fleet proved its strength despite the closure of the airspace by the siege countries.