Tribune News Network
Doha
VIRGINIA Commonwealth University School of the Arts in Qatar (VCUarts Qatar) welcomed the Class of 2022 at a special event in Doha recently.
The 'Hayakom/Welcome' event for newly admitted students and their families was held in the Atrium, Orange Hall and Saffron Hall.
A total of 103 students have been accepted to VCUarts Qatar in its 20th year. VCUarts Qatar has 361 students representing 41 nationalities and was the first university to open at Qatar Foundation.
The students were greeted by VCUarts Qatar's Executive Dean Dr Donald N. Baker, who said,"I am proud to see all this raw, creative potential gathered in one place. You are about to embark on a unique and challenging journey that will lead you to earn a degree from the Number 1 School of Arts in the United States."
"Your hard work and perseverance is what granted you this spot here today, hence I encourage you to take full advantage of what our programs have to offer, as you are the ambassador of your own brand and shall represent this university in shaping tomorrow's creative future."
The Class of 2022 were then introduced to the Chairs of the departments of Interior Design, Graphic Design, Fashion Design, Painting and Printmaking, Art History and MFA in Design, who gave the students an overview of VCUarts Qatar's programs.
Sean Roberts, the Interim Chair of VCUarts Qatar's Art History program, told the assembled students,"We are the only program of this kind in the region - and one of the few in the world which focuses on the arts of the Islamic world in a global context, inviting our students and soon you - to make connections between these cultures and those of the broader Mediterranean world, Asia and even the Americas, from the ancient world up to the present moment."
Sandra Wilkins, the Chair of the Fashion Design program, who joined VCUarts Qatar in 1998, also welcomed the Class of 2022 and reminded them that 'Pendulum', VCUarts Qatar's 19th annual fashion show, will take place at the Westin Doha Hotel and Spa on May 3.
An enthusiastic presentation was also given by the university's Art Foundation students who showed the Class of 2022 their works and their progress since they joined in August 2017.
Immediately after the event, the Class of 2022 were invited to join the admissions department as they cut a specially-baked cake at the 'Pick-up Your Admissions Packet-Party', which included a photo booth, with advisors on hand from VCUarts Qatar's Career Advising and Student Affairs departments, as well as HBKU Student Financial Services, and the Ministry of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs.