Satyendra Pathak
Doha
Kuwait's top air conditioner (AC) brand Coolex aims to capture 70 percent of Qatar's AC market share after winning big contracts in the country, the company's business development officer in Doha has said.
Coolex, which supplies various cooling products to the Qatari market through its local partner Al Jaber Capital for Air Conditioning & Refrigeration System (JARIC), has captured a share of almost 20 percent in Qatar's AC market in two years.
JARIC Business Development Officer Nedaa Faisal Badwan told Qatar Tribune that the supply of Coolex products to Qatar has increased significantly after the economic blockade was imposed on the country by its neighbours in June last year.
Supply of Coolex products to Qatar has increased almost 30 percent in 300 days since the blockade compared with the corresponding period before it.
"One of our prime contracts in Qatar is to instal chillers at the Al Thumama Stadium, which will host 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar matches. We are also in talks to work on other FIFA-related projects," Badwan said.
Badwan said the company also bagged major contracts worth millions of Qatari riyals from Qatari companies to instal air-cooled packaged chillers and other products during the recently concluded Qatar Self-Sufficiency Exhibition.
"Individual customers like owners of big villas and shops have also placed huge orders with us," she said.
Given the positive response from customers in Qatar, JARIC has decided to increase the number of Coolex outlets in Qatar. Currently, there are two outlets and more would be opened in different parts of the country to meet the rising demand.
"We are also working to set up a maintenance workshop in IKEA Mall to provide uninterrupted after sales service to our customers," she said.
Talks are also on to open another service station at the Tawar Mall.
Coolex, which supplies products like concealed ducted split, central ducted split air conditioners, central package air conditioners, air-cooled packaged chillers and air handling units fan coil units in the Qatari market, is the first in the region and the only air conditioning manufacturing company in Kuwait.
"We have a market share of 70 percent in the Kuwait's AC market. We aim to achieve the same share in Qatar's market. Our target is achievable as Qatar wants to promote Kuwaiti products in its market," Badwan said.
"As there is no supply of ACs from Saudi Arabia and the UAE after the blockade, we see a very good chance to achieve our target in the near future," Badwan added.