Tribune News Network
Doha
The Saudi-led siege of Qatar has hastened the country's pursuit of self-sufficiency, the chairman of the Qatar Chamber said in Miami on Wednesday, urging American businessmen to make use of Qatar's increasingly reliable economy.
Following the unjust blockade, Qatar has adopted a multitude of policies and introduced key amendments to attract and promote local and foreign investments, Sheikh Khalifa bin Jassim al Thani said, while addressing the Qatar-US Business Forum that began on Wednesday.
"The policies helped increase competitiveness of the national economy and attracted more investments to Qatar."
The economic laws, he said, allow full ownership for foreign investors in specific sectors, with incentives such as tax exemption and relaxation on customs and import regulations.
Qatar recently established four new logistic zones, with reduced storage fees, and supported supply chains, he said, adding that the country was also working on establishing free zones on 35 million sqm, which will provide more direct foreign investment opportunities.
Highlighting Qatari investments in the US, which run into billions of dollars deployed in sectors such as technology, media, entertainment, energy and real estate, Sheikh Khalifa said the City Center DC in Washington is the first Qatari investment in the US real estate sector.
The Qatar Investment Authority is interested in increasing investments in the US in the coming years, he said, adding that there are several investment opportunities for the private sector in there."There are many Qatari investments in the hospitality sector in Miami."
There are more than 400 American companies currently operating in Qatar. Of them, 112 are 100-percent owned by Americans, while 290 companies run on US-Qatar partnership. The total capital of these companies is around $2.5 billion.
Citing the latest World Bank reports, Sheikh Khalifa said Qatar's real GDP growth rose to 2 percent in 2017 and is expected to rise to 2.6 percent in 2018."This emphasises that Qatar economy is growing rapidly despite the siege and proves the economy's flexibility," he added.