Ailyn Agonia
Doha
DR Amal al Malki, Founding Dean of the College of Humanities and Social Sciences (CHSS) at the Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), will join 11 outstanding women from the Middle East and North Africa region in a forum focusing on gender equality to be held in Paris, France, this month.
Dr Malki, whose academic distinction includes establishing the Master of Arts in Women, Society and Development at HBKU, has been selected by the French Ministry for Europe and Foreign Affairs as 'Gender Equality Champions'.
The French programme aims at providing participants with genuine knowledge on gender equality issues and policies in France as well as highlighting the activities of women and their contribution to gender equality in their respective countries.
"We are happy to have Amal as among the participants in this gathering of prominent Arab women who will work together and with other representatives on issue of gender equality which is not just a fundamental human right but also a necessary foundation for fruitful, prosperous and sustainable world," French Ambassador to Qatar HE Eric Chevallier said during a press conference held in Doha on Wednesday.
"Amal al Malki has been fighting for women's rights and professional equality during her studies, research and as founding dean of CHSS at HBKU. During the conference in Paris, she will be meeting and exchanging ideas with her counterparts from the region and French and European stakeholders who actively promote gender equality. I have no doubt, she will come back with even stronger network and new ideas on how to further contribute to women and girls empowerment," the envoy added.
Ambassador Chevallier also underscored the importance and attention being given by French government on the issue of gender equality and women's rights such as the launch of the 3rd International Strategy for Women and Men Equality 2018-2022 by the President of France on the occasion of the 2018 Women's International Day.
Commenting on her selection, Dr Malki said,"This selection means a lot to me especially because it focuses on an area that is very dear to my heart. I have been working and campaigning in this area for so long in my writings and research. Arab women are diverse and I hope the richness and diversity of our issues are something that I will be able to communicate when I go to Paris."
"Qatari women, in particular, are very empowered. We are blessed to have HH Sheikha Moza as our role model who has single-handedly changed how society perceives women (especially working women), giving us legitimacy and respect. Qatar is advanced in regard to women rights as a part of its overall social justice and equality agenda. Women empowerment is at the heart of the Qatar national vision and development strategies," Dr Malki added.