Tribune News Network
Doha
An expanding economy, increasing demand for investment, and a resilient real estate sector in Qatar are the driving forces behind a partnership between Doha-based Elan Group and Cityscape to jointly organise the seventh edition of Cityscape Qatar, the country's only international real estate event.
Cityscape Qatar will be held under the patronage of Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani at the Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre, from April 23 to April 25, a press statement said on Tuesday.
The event aims to connect exhibitors from Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Turkey, and the UK with thousands of receptive real estate investors looking for investment opportunities in Qatar and globally.
"This year, Cityscape Qatar will include more than 10,000 sqm of exhibition space, and several leading local and international developers, such as: United Developers, UDC, Msheireb Properties, Just Real Estate, Ezdan Holding Group, Al Bandary Real Estate and many more,"the statement added.
Last year's Cityscape Qatar saw a massive uptake in visitor numbers, which showed the appetite for real estate in the country. Show organisers expect the same response from leading developers and visitors this year.
Cityscape Qatar offers a plethora of investment choices with high capital growth prospects and a clear regulatory framework, making it a 'go to' market for savvy investors looking for secure long-term gains.
With confidence in the real estate sector, this year's Cityscape Qatar will feature a range of exclusive deals and offers on projects from the country and around the world. Developers and real estate experts will be onsite to advise prospective homebuyers and investors, as well as banks, and financial institutions.
Running parallel to the exhibition, will be the Cityscape Qatar Conference and Cityscape Qatar Talks, which will include a stellar programme of topics and speakers covering the full spectrum of real estate investment and development.