Tribune News Network
THE General Directorate of Traffic is studying the possibility of introducing a system that can jam mobile networks and prevent motorists behind the wheel from using cell phones for making calls, texting and watching videos. Numerous studies have proved that talking on smartphones including use of hands-free and texting are responsible for causing large number of road accidents.
Studies conducted in several countries have proved that distractive driving due to use of smartphones accounts for a substantial number of road accidents resulting in serious injuries, permanent disabilities and fatalities. There is no data available on as to how many accidents are caused due to distracted driving. What's certain is that distracted driving accounts for fairly large number of fatalities and injuries, out of over 1.2 million deaths caused by motor vehicles in various parts of the world.
Qatar's traffic department deserves a pat on its back for working tirelessly to bring down the number of road accidents in Qatar. Its efforts have proved successful too. Traffic department's continuous public awareness campaigns through media, bill boards and advertisements, involving school students and public institutions have yielded positive results. Other measures taken to curb road accidents include introduction of stringent tests for people seeking driving licence, strict vehicle inspection quality control, introduction of surveillance cameras on roads prone to accidents, seeking to curb speeding and improving response time of ambulances after accidents.
The average deaths in road mishaps in Qatar have come down to 5.4 per 100,000 persons as a result of various measures initiated by traffic department against the world average of 17.4 per 100,000 persons. This is indeed a matter of satisfaction for all- citizens and residents, traffic department and the government. According to World Health Organisation (WHO) figures, the number of road traffic deaths per thousand vehicles in the world is 10-12. In Qatar, the figure is 1.17 deaths for the same number of vehicles.
As far as road mishaps are concerned, despite increase in number of vehicles on Qatar's roads, the accident rate has declined by 2.4 percent and injures have come down by 1.3 percent. The rate of serious injuries has also declined and so has the number of road accidents without injuries.
Although a large number of countries have banned the use of smartphones by drivers, distracted driving resulting in serious injuries and deaths remains a matter of concern. According to WHO,"drivers using mobile phones are approximately four times more likely to be involved in a crash than drivers not using a mobile phone. Using a phone while driving slows reaction times (notably braking reaction time, but also reaction to traffic signals), and makes it difficult to keep in the correct lane, and to keep the correct following distances." WHO has also made it clear that"hands-free phones are not much safer than hand-held phone sets, and texting considerably increases the risk of a crash."
But the phenomena of mobile phone driving and texting causing fatalities and disabilities are not the only issues that should worry the governments and policy makers. Use of smartphones by walkers and pedestrians on busy roads is no less worrisome.
It's common to see people of all ages- young men and women, school and college students as well as office goers walking on busy city streets with ear buds enjoying music totally oblivious of the buzz of traffic around them. These sleep-walking people pose serious threats to road users motorists and pedestrians alike.
While it's true that distracted driving is a much bigger concern due to sheer number, the phenomenon of distracted walking, as it's called, calls for strict action on part of authorities. Some governments and municipalities around the world have woken up to the risks of distracted walking and begun imposing restrictions, including outright ban on use of smartphones, talking, texting, listening to music with buds in ears and wearing headphones.
Qatar would do well to use devices that can prevent motorists from using mobile phones while driving. It may also consider curbing distracted walking that poses risks to walkers themselves, motorists and other road users.