Santhosh Chandran
Doha
PRIME Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani and President of Ukraine Petro Poroshenko opened the 6th Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition & Conference (AgriteQ 2018) at Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre on Tuesday.
The opening ceremony was attended by Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohammed bin Abdullah al Rumaihi, Turkey's Minister of Food, Agriculture and Livestock Ahmet Ef1'baref Faku305?baba, a number of sheikhs and members of the diplomatic corps accredited to Qatar, as well as representatives of states and the companies participating in the exhibition from inside and outside Qatar.
PM and Ukrainian president toured the exhibitionf0's pavilions, where they were given a detailed explanation on exhibits and products related to agriculture, fisheries and livestock.
Around 313 exhibitors and 31 international pavilions from more than 36 countries are taking part in the exhibition which will run until March 22 at DECC. There is a 100 percent increase in the number of participants in the exhibition compared with last year.
The countries participating for the first time in the exhibition include Iran, Spain, Pakistan, Oman, Syria, Bulgaria, Sudan, Lebanon, the Netherlands and Palestine.
The exhibition offers participants an opportunity to showcase their latest products and technologies related to agriculture and fisheries such as advanced irrigation systems.
Commenting on the event, Rumaihi said,"The exhibition highlights Qatar's strategy to promote agricultural sector and diversify its economy in order to achieve self-sufficiency in food production and reduce dependency on imports. It also reflects the government's continuous support to agriculture by promoting investments in this sector and encouraging young nationals to take up agriculture."
Assistant Undersecretary of Agricultural Affairs, Livestock and Fisheries at the Ministry of Municipality and Environment and Chairman of the Steering Committee of the Organisation and Supervision of AgriteQ 2018, Faleh bin Nasser al Thani, said,"The exhibition aims to encourage nationals to invest in agricultural sector. It also offers interactive platforms for national and international agricultural experts to exchange experiences and knowledge."
The event will also feature for the first time the AgriteQ conference 2018, aiming to bring together agricultural, environmental and veterinary experts and technology service providers from around the world to discuss strategies to meet the needs of agriculture sector in Qatar.
Among the activities as part of the exhibition include a 'B2B Matching Platform', a specialised platform for enterprises and businesses to meet senior decision makers and agricultural leaders from the public and private sectors, as well as an auction for cattle, poultry and other animals.