Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Airways (QA) and Iberia have announced the expansion of their codeshare partnership, offering Iberia customers increased connectivity to destinations across the Middle East and Asia, as well as providing enhanced accessibility for QA passengers to key destinations across Latin America, including Brazil, Colombia, Uruguay and Panama.
Further strengthening the airline's codeshare partnership and enhancing both carriers' oneworld relationship, the new codeshare destinations can already be booked. The Qatar Airways' code (QR) will be applied to routes operated by Iberia from Madrid to Panama City, Panama; Rio de Janeiro, Brazil; Bogot'e1 Medell'edn (MDE), Colombia; Montevideo, Uruguay; and Santo Domingo; Dominican Republic. QA currently offers double daily flights from Doha direct to Madrid. From July, this will increase to 17 times weekly.
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar al Baker said:"Expanding the codeshare partnership with Iberia was a natural progression based on our customers' mutual desire for additional destinations across both networks, as well as our membership in the oneworld alliance. Latin America is a key area of growth for us, and we are delighted to be able to provide access to these new, fast-growing cities for our valued passengers from Qatar, the wider Middle East, South Asia and beyond with seamless connectivity."
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Iberia, Luis Gallego, said:"We are happy to announce this expanded codeshare agreement with our oneworld partner, Qatar Airways. With these additional routes, we will be able to provide our customers with greater access to the Middle East and Asia, offering even more choice to both business and leisure travellers."
The enhanced partnership will also benefit members of both airlines' frequent flyer programmes Qatar Airways Privilege Club and Iberia Plus as well as provide passengers with increased accessibility to QA's award-winning hub, Hamad International Airport, and Iberia's hub at Madrid Airport Terminal 4.