Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Tourism Authority (QTA) with partners Auditoire, held a special recognition ceremony to celebrate the achievements and success of Doha Jewellery & Watches Exhibition (DJWE) 2018 with all related partners, including government entities, exhibitors and the Young Qatari Designers.
Held under the patronage of the Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani, the 15th edition of DJWE noted a record number of 23,000 visits from Qatar and abroad.
Bringing to life the theme 'celebrate luxury', the exhibition enabled visitors to discover precious jewels and timepieces from over 490 brands, at more than 50 exhibitors from 10 countries.
During his remarks at the recognition ceremony, Ahmed al Obaidli, director of Exhibitions at QTA, said."The 15th edition of DJWE was exceptional at all levels. It was a true celebration of one of the oldest and most important exhibitions in Qatar, which has continued to achieve successes year after year. At QTA, we believe that at the heart of any success is our partnerships with the public and private sectors, a matter we take great pride in."
"The DJWE has also been the recipient of our leadership's interest and support, and this progress would only have been possible with the kind patronage of HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani, the Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, who has consistently supported the development of this exhibition." Ahmed al Obaidli, together with Mazen Abd Rabbo, VP Middle East for Auditoire delivered recognition awards to the Ministry of Interior (MoI), Security Systems Department (SSD), Civil Defense, General Customs Authority, Lekhwiya, General Immigration Authority, Traffic Department and Qatar Standardization.
The Young Qatari Designers Nada al Sulaiti (Hairaat), Nouf al Meer (Nouf Jewellery), Ghada al Bouanain (Ghada Al Bouanian), Jawaher & Hessa al Mannai (Ghand Jewellery), Shikha Mohamad (Al Ghla Jewellery) and Leila Abu Issa (Leila Issam Fine Jewellery), who showcased their creativity at the centre of the exhibition were also awarded in recognition of their talent.
Five special awards were granted to exhibitors.
The six-day show unveiled a series of new visitor experiences, from the new DJWE Forum, to a Charity Auction in partnership with Qatari Auction House AlBahie, expert talks and hands-on watches and jewellery workshops.
Together the activities enabled visitors to delve into the world of fine horology and jewellery artisanship, and create special memories of DJWE 2018.