dpa/afp
Melbourne
It's all about the number five for Sebastian Vettel when the Formula One season kicks off on Sunday with the Australian Grand Prix.
It is the personal start number of the German on his Ferrari car, and a 2018 title would be Vettel's fifth overall, five years after taking four straight between 2010 and 2013 at Red Bull.
His main rival is again holder Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes who is also seeking a fifth world championship.
But while another trophy would be more of a bonus for the Briton, the pressure will be on the 30-year-old Vettel to finally give Ferrari a first drivers' title in 11 years since Kimi Raikkonen's success in 2007.
Fernando Alonso failed to end the rot during his term and Vettel is now also already starting his fourth season at the famed team.
He did better than expected with three victories in his first year 2015 but 2016 saw zero wins before Ferrari rebounded in 2017, with Vettel taking five grands prix but falling short again after leading the way for the first half of the season.
Now Vettel comes to Australia - where he won 12 months ago - with lots of confidence after pre-season testing in Barcelona.
"I think we're starting from a good base with our SF71H car," he said on his website last week."Now we'll have to work on development to further explore and improve its potential. I have a lot of confidence in our team, I know how skilled and committed the guys in Maranello are.
"I can't wait to be in Australia, because once we get on track there, we will all be driving and racing under the same conditions. And, as I said before, I have confidence in our car."
Sunday's race will be the 200th for the German who will be seeking his 100th podium finish and 48th race win.
That makes him second best in the current 20-driver line-up, with Hamilton better on 62 grand prix top spots, 117 podiums and 72 poles.
Mercedes with Hamilton and Valtteri Bottas should be the rivals to beat, and possibly resurgent Red Bull as well with Daniel Ricciardo and Max Verstappen.
Some believe Vettel has made bigger strides at Ferrari in three years than mighty Michael Schumacher who took five years to win the first of five titles with the team in 2000 for a record tally of seven overall.
"It would be fantastic if it works out in the end," Vettel said.
Verstappen just likes to drive fast!
Max Verstappen says his remarkable success in a short pace of time on the Formula One circuit is not down to being stronger mentally than others, but simply because he enjoys driving fast.
The Red Bull pilot who aged 18 became the youngest driver to win a Formula One Grand Prix in 2016 in Spain is gearing up for the curtain-raising race of the season, the Australian GP in Melbourne this weekend.
Verstappen who added two further victories to his tally in last year's championship to sweeten the frustrations of seven retirements told The Guardian he never pauses to consider how strong he is feeling mentally.
"I never even think of the mental side of things because I never had any issues," said Verstappen, who is now 20.
"If you are a bit weak in your head maybe you can train your mind but it will never be your strong point.
"Many people ask: 'What do you need mentally to succeed in F1?' I say: 'What do you mean mentally?' I just enjoy it and drive as fast I can. But so many people think your psychology is such a massive thing. For me, it's not necessary."
Verstappen, whose father Jos also competed in F1, had an incredible record in karting racing of 68 wins in his first 70 races. He says that early success shaped his enormous self-belief.
"You always have to believe in yourself and I had that from karting," said Verstappen.
"I was never one of those kids saying: 'Is it all going to be all right?' If you start doubting yourself like that, thinking: 'Am I good enough?' maybe there is a reason you're thinking that."