CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
MANY Qatari entrepreneurs are enjoying unprecedented opportunity to showcase their gourmet skills to a large audience of gastronomes, thanks to the ongoing Qatar International Food Festival (QIFF) at the Hotel Park.
Even though most of these entrepreneurs do not have a physical restaurant, the festival has provided them with a wonderful platform to be exposed to the wider world by displaying items ranging from desserts, main courses and drinks.
With the look of their items, one can tell they have a passion for food.
Among the women are the likes of Al Anoud Kafoud of Yadooh Factory, Dana (ND Choco Color) and Hamda al Tamimi (+974 Cooking).
Yadooh Factory features different kinds of desserts, including a wide range of crepes and truffles; savoury; hot and cold drinks, among others.
Al Anoud, who is the founder of the factory, said that 'Yadooh' means grandmother because she wanted to come up with a name that is unique and that depicts her culture.
"We are at the festival serving different kinds of savoury, desserts, hot and cold drinks. Our factory started small by serving only chocolate truffle but later became bigger featuring other foods like the savoury and dessert in our menu," she added.
She further said that her menu expanded with different kinds of crepe with varied flavours.
To maintain its heritage, Yadooh Factory serves hot drinks like karak and gahwa (Arabic coffee).
"Arabic coffee was the first as it goes back to our traditions. For cold drinks, we have a wide range of mojitos. We also have our Yadooh signature chocolate," she said, expressing happiness over the opportunity to showcase her products at the food festival for the first time.
"This is helping to promote my factory and get new customers. I am planning to open a caf` soon," she also said.
Al Anoud, however, said that this was not her first time to showcase her factory to the public."We have participated in other events with Bedaya Center. The Bedaya Center was our pusher and the source of our development. The Center has supported us from the beginning."
On her part, Hamda, who is also participating in the QIFF for the first time, served pasta with chicken and vegetables, fries, mini burger with different kinds of home-made sauce, among others.
Hamda said she learnt cooking from her mother, expressing her admiration for celebrated Qatari chef Aisha al Tamimi.
"I am happy to be given this platform," she said.
Dana, whose stall served different chocolates with varied flavours, said:"We don't have a shop yet but we are hoping to open one soon."
The Qatar International Food festival continues until March 25.