Comments 
The sixth edition of Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition ( AgriteQ 2018) opened this Tuesday at the Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre (DECC) with over 313 exhibitors from at least 36 countries participating, a hundred percent increase compared to last year’s edition. 
The event, which will run until 22 March occupies four large halls at the DECC and a total space of 21,875 square metres! 
More Investors 
Over the past years, the exhibition has become a global event and a new achievement for Qatar, which increasingly attracts more investors seizing promising business opportunities in the country’s agricultural sector. Countries like Iran, Spain, Pakistan, Oman, Syria, Bulgaria, Sudan, Lebanon, the Netherlands and Palestine are joining this year. In addition, the exhibition also offers exhibitors the opportunity to showcase their latest agro-products and technologies as well as advanced irrigation systems and fisheries. 
Minister of Municipality and Environment Mohammed Bin Abdullah Al Rumaihi said that AgriteQ aims to promote the national agricultural sector and diversify the economy, increase self-sufficiency in food production and domestic production capacities and reduce the country’s dependency on imported products, following the vision of Qatar National Vision 2030. 
The Minister of Municipality and Environment also emphasised AgriteQ’s capability to provide visitors with an integrated platform for the latest developments in agricultural technologies. 
Special Exhibitions at AgriteQ 
A special display focused on veterinary products and services is also available at AgriteQ. VeteQ is showcasing a broad range of veterinary products, equipment and services for livestock, poultry and other farm species. 
FoodteQ , a specialised platform for the food and agro-industry, is showcasing food products, food processing and packaging machinery. EnviroteQ meanwhile, is focused on environmental management and conservation, showcasing technologies related to water treatment, waste management, and smart farming. 
AgriteQ Conference 2018 
AgriteQ will also be hosting the first AgriteQ Conference 2018, which will bring together agricultural, environmental and veterinary experts and technology service providers from around the world, to discuss strategies to meet the demand for agriculture in Qatar. 
For more information about AgriteQ 2018, visit the event page at agriteq.com .