Comments 
HH Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, Chairperson of Qatar Foundation (QF), and HE Sheikha Hind bint Hamad Al Thani, Vice Chairperson and QF CEO, joined the opening ceremony of the Annual Research Conference 2018 (ARC’18) at the Qatar National Convention Centre (QNCC). 
The event was held under the theme ‘R&D: Focusing on Priorities, Delivering Impact’. 
The two-day conference brings local and international perspectives to the issue of how Qatar’s research and innovation efforts can address the nation’s greatest challenges, and make a mark in the global marketplace. 
Giving her opening remarks to the ARC’18 audience, HE Sheikha Hind bint Hamad Al Thani said that the Annual Research Conference stems from QF’s efforts to address major national challenges by contributing to the establishment of a diverse and sustainable economy, while providing effective and impactful solutions. 
We believe that research, technology, and development are among the most important elements of a competitive and diverse economy, and are therefore a key priority at Qatar Foundation, along with empowering and activating research innovations across Qatar.’ 
The seventh edition of ARC – organised by Qatar Foundation Research and Development (QF R&D) – provides a platform for knowledge-sharing and multidisciplinary collaboration. The global gathering has introduced three new tracks, each centred on an important element of Qatar’s R&D ecosystem. 
The opening day of the conference also saw HH Sheikha Moza present the ARC’18 ‘Best Research Project Award’ to Dr Talal Khader Talal , of Hamad Medical Corporation, and Dr David Armstrong of the University of Southern California, in recognition of their collaborative project ‘Tackling Diabetic Foot Ulcer’ . The ARC’18 ‘Best Innovation Award’ meanwhile, was given to Hamad Bin Khalifa University, in recognition of the Advanced Transcription System (QATS) , an Arabic language speech recognition technology developed by Qatar Computing Research Institute. 
Day two of ARC’18 conference is featuring a series of interactive workshops and a closing plenary session that will identify recommendations for the next stage of Qatar National Research Strategy. 
For more information about ARC’18, visit www.qf-arc.org . Related Link: