New Oryx Kids Club Puts Even More Fun in Flying with Qatar Airways Posted on Comments 
Qatar Airways recently launched a special children’s club for its young passengers – the Oryx Kids Club – an exciting new club designed to create more fun for children flying with the airline. 
The fun-filled launch took place at KidzMondo Doha , hosted by Qatar Airways Chief Commercial Officer Ehab Amin and Senior Vice President for Marketing and Corporate Communications Salam Al Shawa, with special appearance by Oryx Kids Club hero mascots, ‘Orry’ and ‘Orah’ the Oryx and their three furry friends – Kamil the camel, Faaiz the falcon and Farah the desert fox. 
Oryx Kids Club 
The Oryx Kids Club and Oryx Kids Loyalty Programme offer special children’s in-flight meal boxes and plush toys on board, in addition to a new and exclusive frequent flyer programme designed for young passengers. Children 2 to 11 years old will be able to register for the Oryx Kids Loyalty Programme and earn Qmiles , which they can redeem for attractive awards and exclusive benefits. They will also earn Qpoints , which will allow them to upgrade to a higher tier. 
Later this year, each registered child will receive a free cuddly toy of the Oryx Kids Club hero mascots, and an exciting new long-haul activity pack with fun games inside. The programme will also feature a specially-designed secure section on the Privilege Club website where children can view their own dashboard, Qmiles balance, travel history and much more, keeping young loyalty members updated about their membership account. 
Although the loyalty programme is for young travellers, parents will also play a key role in managing their child’s account, making it an opportunity for parents and children who plan to travel together, so they both can enjoy the benefits provided by Privilege Club. 
Hero Mascots 
The fun new hero mascots will feature on the airline’s website, in the marketing materials and in all the literatures and activity packs given to children when they fly long-haul, as well as at special appearances at Hamad International Airport (HIA). Parents only need to register with the Oryx Kids Club online as part of the booking process, to make sure that their kids can join all the fun on board. 
To pre-register your child for the Oryx Kids Club, click here .