Asif Iqbal
Doha
Vodafone Qatar's share purchase agreement with Qatar Foundation will lead to an improvement in the bottom line profitability of the company in the coming years, its outgoing CEO Ian Gray said.
"We are optimistic that the coming years will see an improvement in the bottom line profitability of the company and this would facilitate the company to pay dividends to its shareholders," he told shareholders at the telecom operator's annual general meeting in Doha on Monday.
Gray said the share purchase agreement will be finalised in the coming days and will usher a new beginning for Vodafone Qatar.
Highlighting the latest results, Gray said,"The overall financial results clearly indicate a recovery in our business performance and with the recently announced changes that re-set it for the future, our growth plans will be delivered faster."
Vodafone Qatar, the exiting chief executive said, is not in a position to recommend payment of dividends to shareholders for the nine-moth period ending December 31, 2017, owing to the telecom operator's plans to invest in improving the capabilities.
"The board has decided not to distribute dividends to shareholders, and likewise non executive board members will not receive any remuneration," he said.
Looking ahead, Gray said, the company will continue to bring further innovative products and unmatched customer experiences across its core mobile offering."We will also further expand our rapidly growing fixed-line proposition, targeting opportunities in public and private investments, major real estate developments and infrastructure projects," he added.
Shareholders later approved the recommendation of the board that Deloitte & Touche be appointed the company's auditors for the financial year 2018, in addition to approving their fees.
The shareholders also approved the financial statements of the company for the nine-month period, as well as the corporate governance report for 2017.
Following the AGM, the telecom operator held an extraordinary general meeting (EGM), where shareholders approved the reduction in the share capital of the company from QR8.454 billion to QR4.227 billion by means of reducing the nominal value of the shares of the company from QR10 per share to QR5 per share.
A reduction in the nominal value of the shares of the company would not impact the value of the shares held by shareholders.
Shareholders also approved to amend the structure of the board of directors of the company, subject to the completion of the previously publicly announced transaction between Vodafone Europe and Qatar Foundation, so that it be composed of seven members; four of whom will be appointed by the private founder and the remaining three directors will be independent members elected by the shareholders of the company.
The current structure of the board of directors will remain in place until the expiry of the term of the current directors on July 25, 2019.