IKOLI VICTOR
doha
Akram Afif scored a brace as Qatar defeated Iraq on the latter's return to international football on home turf at the Basra Sports City Stadium with a capacity crowd of 65,000 on Wednesday.
The stadium and two others in Karbala and Erbil got their ban lifted following a FIFA decision to allow official matches hold in the three cities. It was an historic match, as Iraq has not played full internationals on home turf since the 1990s.
Qatar, playing in their traditional maroon shirts showed quality defending as it waded off the attacking forays of the home team who started confidently. Muhanad Ali's glancing header flashed the face of the Qatar post and Ahmad Ibrahim Khalaf's header again was wide.
KAS Eupen striker Afif on-loan to Al Sadd was a thorn in the flesh of the Iraqis as his offensive play resulted in Qatar's first incursion into the opponents' area. He was bundled off the ball inside the box in a goal bound move.
Afif atoned for his earlier miss with a calm finish in the 17th minute to give Qatar a deserved lead. A through ball by Almoez Ali found him unmarked inside the box; he made no mistake to slot the ball past the rushing keeper. A minute later, Afif missed a glorious chance from close range to increase Qatar's lead.
Defender Abdelkarim Hassan almost increased Qatar's lead when his low strike deflected off an opponent to hit the top post.
Against the run of play, Ahmed Yasen equalised in the 31st minute, smashing the ball into the net after a Brwa Nouri square pass inside the box. Qatar's defence was caught napping in the centre of the field as they failed to close mark their opponents who beat them on a counter attack.
Just before the break, Afif made it 2-1 with a sublime finish from outside the box. The precision, height and curl behind his strike beat the Iraqi custodian who should have done better from the distance.
In the second half, Qatar's early pressure paid off when Ismael Mohammed made it 3-1 in the 63rd minute after Haydos' effort slightly deflected Ismael's foot on the touchline. It was a nice build-up from Afif who waited patiently for Almoez before releasing the ball for his teammate who squared the ball across the face of goal.
The Iraqis spurred by their teeming fans reduced the deficit in the 67th minute after goalkeeper Mohammed Hameed's long-ball was missed by the entire backline for Muhanad Ali to pounce on. His strike was stopped with the hand by a Qatari defender but Hussein Ali tapped it in.
The home team pushed forward for a goal but Qatar held its own to record a win in their first friendly in 2018. Qatar will next face Syria on Saturday in the Three- Nation friendly tournament.