Tribune News Network
The International School of London (ISL) Qatar hosted the Regional Round of the World Scholar's Cup (WSC) 2018. Five coaches committed to guiding and training 21 ISL Qatar students in this round. All 21 students qualified for the Global Round in Kuala Lumpur this summer.
Since its inception in 2007, The World Scholar's Cup has become one of the most recognised, joyful, and fastest-growing extracurricular activities in the world. Although it may look like an academic competition at first glance, it is more aptly described as a celebration of learning ” an inclusive enrichment experience in which students of all backgrounds work together to explore new subjects and practise new skills.
The theme for the WSC this year is 'An Entangled World', suggesting that the things we know, remember, and interact with in the world are intricately and meaningfully interconnected. The WSC enables students to make connections with the IB curriculum; in particular, linking the experiences from each event to some of the learner profile traits with the help of the five coaches: Andrew Elizaga, Jackie Isherwood, Damon McDonald, Richard Thomson, and Rafael Abreu. A few of the teams offered reflections on just that.
Team Sebastian Santoni, Youssef Barakat, and Raed Asad reflected on the trait of being courageous:"The World Scholar's Cup inspires and encourages scholars to take risks through its diversity. Unlike other competitions, success doesn't lie in one skill but instead in the ability to do well in a range of areas and cooperate as a team. In our experience, apart from the fact that our team has really good chemistry, our team is successful because we each specialize in different areas that together make us a strong team overall. The fact that we attempt to also carry our weight in our weakest areas shows how the WSC is a great opportunity to take risks."
Ziyad Anwer, Charlotte Le, and Thomas Freundt reflected on being a communicator:"We believe that communication is very important in debate because in order to win a debate, you have to be able to effectively convey your ideas to make your side of the motion stronger. This includes not only your verbal but also non-verbal communication because in debate you often have to be confident and have good body posture, which influences how people interpret your ideas ” if you're more confident, you're more likely to be interpreted in a positive way."
Finally, debate-showcase scholar Ra'nna Mughal and her teammates Lubna Amer and Amine Hanoun, offered the following reflection on the learner trait of an inquirer:"As IB learners, we develop a passion for discovery. Through attending WSC we acquire many skills essential in the conducting of inquiry and research. But the best part is that we learn these skills through actively enjoying learning. This love of learning stems from the engaging, complex and interesting topics that WSC asks you to study. This year's theme of an Entangled World really opens eyes and makes you look at the world differently whilst raising more questions."