QNA
Doha
Qatar's political and economic fundamentals and choices have played an important role in enhancing the confidence of the business community in the national economy, Minister of Economy and Commerce HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani has said.
"Qatar is today one of the most important countries in the region to invest in and it offers huge investment opportunities not only in food security but also in the logistics, sports, tourism, health and other vital sectors," he said while addressing the Advisory Council's regular weekly session.
The minister said Qatar took high positions in the Global Competitiveness Index, as the country ranked first for its safe business environment, second for the impact of tax on business, third for government procurement of advanced technology, fifth for venture capital availability and fifth in terms of availability of quality labour.
Touching upon the actions taken during the initial hours of the siege, Sheikh Ahmed said a contingency plan was activated to deal with ensuring the food security of the country and its economic capabilities.
He said the plan made provisions for diversifying the sources of supply, opening markets and taking necessary steps to strengthen, fortify and boost the national economy and the local market.
The Ministry of Economy and Commerce, he said, is keen to activate the institutional work and develop mechanisms of joint coordination with all parties concerned to work on a number of key areas at the internal and external levels. It includes the diversification of external sources of product and food supply and activating the strategic partnerships initiated by the wise policies of the Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani.
"The ministry and its partners have been able to meet all the needs of the local market since the first day of the siege, and the availability of products in the markets was not affected and we have completely succeeded in overcoming the effects of the treacherous and arbitrary measures of the siege countries."
The minister pointed to the provision of logistical support services for the supply operations in the exporting countries or in transport, loading, unloading, warehousing and distribution operations at all commercial outlets of Qatar, including small grocery stores and strengthening field control of markets around the clock to prevent any monopolistic practices and supervise the quality and prices of goods offered.
Community awareness and communication, he said, were at the heart of the work of the ministry as it prepared a series of positive messages to reassure the members of the society about the availability of goods in the markets, as well as intensified awareness campaigns on the importance of reading food data on imported products in addition to the provision of the translation of the product's language.
On the national product initiative, he said the ministry has been keen to establish the executive frameworks of the initiative, which is a product of the Ministry of Economy and Commerce to support the marketing of national companies' products, and one of the most important initiatives to deter the economic effects of the unjust siege on the local market. He said the ministry had launched a huge campaign to support national products and urged consumers to make them their first choice.
The minister reiterated that his ministry has taken all necessary measures to ensure that all necessary production inputs are provided to the national food industries to continue supplying the local market with the national products.
Besides, Sheikh Ahmed said, the MEC, in cooperation with the private sector represented in national suppliers and producers, has launched a project to build and control the targeted strategic stock of commodities and food products, whose preliminary results indicate that global rates have been ensured, which is another indicator of the failure of the unjust siege.
The ministry has continued to work on opening new channels with friendly countries in order to accelerate the supply of goods and products to the local market while diversifying its geographic distribution and geopolitical expansion to reduce the risks.
These countries include Turkey, Oman, Kuwait, Azerbaijan, India, Pakistan, Morocco, and Algeria.
Sheikh Ahmed said the ministry signed bilateral economic and trade partnership agreements with Turkey as well as multilateral agreements — such as the agreement to facilitate transport and transit of goods — with Iran and Turkey. It is also working to open new markets in Iraq and some African, Asian and American countries.
At the international level, the minister said the MEC has been successful in explaining the international community Qatar's view on the arbitrary measures of the siege states. Qatar has taken the necessary legal action against the siege nations at the relevant international organisations such as the World Trade Organisation.
"These efforts have played an important role in breaking the unjust siege, which the blockading countries thought would affect the independence and sovereignty of our dear homeland."
He also praised the pioneering role of the Qatari citizens, who were aware of the conspiracy and supported their country and their wise leadership against this brutal siege, while praising the efforts of the residents in the country as well.