For the common man, a fire incident can be a traumatising and alien experience that happens somewhere and to someone else. But the truth is that it can happen, anywhere and to anyone, especially when there is lack of fire safety awareness and negligent behaviour.
The Society of Fire Protection Engineers Qatar chapter (SFPE-Q) does exactly what is needed to ensure that fire incidents are prevented not just by spreading awareness but also by educating fire-safety practitioners."The objective of SFPE is to advance the science and practice of fire protection engineering and its allied fields, to maintain a high ethical standard among its members and to foster fire protection engineering education," said the chapter's President and Chairman of the Board Edgar Boyano.
The Society of Fire Protection Engineers (SFPE) was established in 1950 and incorporated in the US as an independent organisation in 1971. It represents professionals in the field of fire protection and fire-safety engineering. The Society has 73 regional and local chapters, and 16 student chapters worldwide. Its members include fire-protection engineers, fire safety engineers, fire engineers and allied-professionals.
SFPE-Q was established on August 5, 2016 upon the approval of its charter and by-laws from the SFPE headquarters in the US. Its mission is to define, develop, and advance the use of engineering best practices; expand scientific and technical knowledge-base; and educate the fire-safety community in order to reduce fire risk.
SFPE-Q Vice-President (External Affairs) and MSFPE Board Vice-Chairman Orlando Pernites said the society is unique in the sense that it is"the first international group focusing only on fire safety professionals in Qatar. Most organisations in the country deal with health and safety."
The group has over a hundred members from different countries. Pernites said that the chapter offers its members the resources they need to excel in their careers, stay on top of latest industry developments, and offer networking opportunities by connecting with the best minds in fire protection and fire safety engineering industry.
Since its establishment, the group has conducted several seminars and workshops. Its Annual Business Meeting in 2017 was attended by over 260 people. On March 23, they will conduct its first seminar for the year titled 'Commissoning Process for Fire Protection System'. It will cover topics on FM 200, Kitchen Fire Suppression System, Fire Pump, Foam Suppression System and System Integration. The seminar will be held at Crowne Plaza - The Business Park from 7:30 am to 4:30 pm.
Qatar Tribune's Llewellyn Flores sat with Bolano, Pernites and SFPE-Q Technical Adviser MSFPE Edwin Mejia for an insight into fire-prevention best practices. Excerpts:
Q: How does SFPE-Q contribute to raising fire-prevention awareness in Qatar?
Mejia: Our objective is to educate safety practitioners on how to conform to standards. We aim to educate them on correctly interpreting standards and implementing them. SFPE also helps consolidate understanding and interpretations of standards by different practitioners.
Where does fire fire-safety start?
Mejia: It starts with every individual. Each citizen should be fire-safety conscious. The most difficult challenge for a safety practitioner is for each individual to be safety conscious. People should be proactive not reactive when it comes to safety.
What does it mean to be 'fire safety conscious'?
Bolano: For regular people, being fire-safety conscious can mean as simple as being aware of your surroundings. Whenever you enter a building, be aware of exit signs. Be alert about fire alarms. Once it is triggered, look for the nearest exit right away. Never use a lift.
Mejia: We have what we call the triangle of fire oxygen, heat and fuel; fuel being anything flammable. We do not have control over oxygen which is all around us. We have control over fuel and heat. If we remove one of these two from the equation, we won't have a fire.
Pernites: The first step is knowing how to identify fire hazards. Be able to identify possible causes of fire and know how to use fire extinguishers and the types of fire.
What do you mean by types of fire?
Mejia: We have fire extinguishers specific to a certain type of fire. Class A are for ordinary combustible materials like paper, wood and cloth. Class B are for flammable liquids and Class C are for electricity-related fires. We also have fire extinguishers with a 'K' on the label. These are for the kitchen. It's used on fire with grease particles.
What is the proper way to use a fire extinguisher?
Mejia: PASS Pull the pin, Aim the hose, Squeeze the lever, Sweeping motion. Also, train. Training helps overcome panicking in case of fire.
How do we ensure raising fire-safety consciousness in the community?
Mejia: Teach children. Teach them about fire its benefits and its dangers. That they cannot play with fire.
Pernites: Train them in what to do in case of fire. How they should get out of the house and where to meet outside.
Anything you wish to add?
Bolano: Make safety a way of life.
Those interested in joining the society, may send an email to membership@sfpe qatar.org.