Canadians in Qatar is all set to celebrate the Great Canadian Snow Ball, to be held on March 23 at the Radisson Blu Hotel.
People from all nations have been invited to attend the Ball. “Canada a melting pot of people and cultures hence we think it is but apt to invite everyone. The event is expected to be a fabulous evening of mouth-watering food, live music and camaraderie,” said Canadians in Qatar Executive Committee Member Julian Branch The Ambassador of Canada to Qatar HE Adrian Norfolk will also be attending the event, along with several other prominent Canadians representing a wide variety of sectors in the Qatar economy.
With 9,000 Canadians in Qatar, the main objective of the event is to bring Canadians, and people of other nations together to recognise what it means to be Canadian. “There are currently almost 37 million people in living in Canada, and we firmly believe our great country has much to celebrate! The evening will be the perfect opportunity for Canadian expatriates living in Qatar to get together, enjoy the company of like-minded individuals, and network,” said Branch.
One of the highlights of the evening is a huge snowball fight! This is a tradition in Canada in the winter. Branch explained, “Back home we make small balls of snow with hands, and throw them at each other. Because we are in the Middle East this is impossible, so we improvise by bringing in hundreds of soft, fluffy cotton balls.”
The ballroom will be transformed into a winter wonderland, as party goers let their hair down, and engage in a good old fashioned Canadian snow ball fight! The ball will also feature live entertainment from the Canadian band ‘The Dunes’, whose repertoire includes a number of Canadian favourites, aswell as a photo booth for party goers to cherish the memory of the ball.
“The Great Canadian Snow ball is my favourite social event of the year. It’s great to be together with lots of Canadians and friends of Canada to celebrate our home and native land - and I’m particularly enthusiastic about the snow ball fight!” said Ambassador Norfolk.
Tickets are priced at QR500 per head and include a sumptuous meal, a live band, a photo booth, a midnight lunch, and a taxi ride home.
The Great Canadian Snow Ball is being held in Qatar since 2003, making it amongst the longstanding event on the Doha social calendar.
For more information or to purchase tickets, please go to https://www.facebook.com/groups/canadiansInQatar/about/ Or contact Julian Branch at 5045 0675.