Asif Iqbal
Doha
The Saudi-led siege has only proved the robustness of Qatar's banking sector, the Chairman of Commercial Bank (CBQ) said in Doha on Wednesday.
"Despite the challenges of 2017, Qatar's banking system restored its equilibrium within months of the siege as the government provided tremendous support," Sheikh Abdulla bin Ali bin Jabor al Thani told shareholders at the bank's annual general meeting on Wednesday.
The chairman said what started as a diplomatic dispute and a potentially serious economic risk has become a source of incredible strength for Qatar as the country has proved to be remarkably resilient.
Sheikh Abdulla said the country has swiftly recovered from the initial disruption caused by the blockade, successfully sourcing alternative import routes routes aided by the opening of Hamad Port and healthy trading relations with countries.
Briefing shareholders on the bank's future plans, Shiekh Abdulla said,"Looking ahead, in 2018 Commercial Bank will continue its transformation journey under its five-year plan."
He said he is satisfied with the progress achieved so far.
The bank will continue to focus on positioning the business to deliver long-term value and sustainable earnings for its shareholders, he added.
Later, shareholders approved the board's recommendation to distribute a cash dividend of 10 percent of the share's nominal value. They also gave their nod to distribute QR18.5 million (including QR2.8 million as remuneration and the remaining for board attendance), which equals to the amount of total remuneration distributed to the board members for the fiscal year 2016.
Shareholders also approved the bank's proposal to increase the limit of the existing global programmes for the issuance of certificates of deposit and US and/or European commercial paper in different currencies directly by the bank.
The bank also got the approval of the shareholders to authorise the board to establish any other debt programmes in any currencies which may be suitable depending on market conditions up to the limit of $1 billion.
A resolution on Global Medium Term Notes (GMTN) Programme was also approved. The board was authorised to launch a Global Medium Term Notes (GMTN) programme in compliance with 144a of the US Securities Act 1933 to allow for issuance into the US markets by the company directly or through a special purpose vehicle (SPV) for up to $2 billion or its equivalent in Qatari Riyal with a maximum maturity of 30 years.