Satyendra Pathak
Doha
The United Development Company (UDC), the developer of The Pearl Qatar Island, is all set to launch a QR2.5 billion state-of-the-art island project in 2018, the company's chairman said on Wednesday.
Addressing shareholders at the company's ordinary and extraordinary general assembly meeting, UDC Chairman Turki bin Mohammed al Khater said the new island project is part of the company's QR5.5 billion five-year (2018-2022) expenditure plan to develop major new projects.
An extension of The Pearl-Qatar, the new island is currently being designed to have an aquarium-style waterpark, an air-conditioned outdoor boardwalk, a green park and a waterfront retail esplanade.
To be spread over an area of 300,000 square metres, the new island will also have various real estate offerings, including beachfront and waterfront villas of different categories and independent islets, all in a modern architectural design.
Work on reclaiming land for the new island project will start in July, UDC President and Chief Executive Officer Ibrahim Jassim al Othman told Qatar Tribune.
UDC will develop the overall infrastructure of the new island. Local and international developers will be invited to take part in various other projects on the upcoming island, he added.
Besides the initial QR2.5 billion investment by UDC, Othman said, the developers would be required to invest additional QR600 million to complete all related projects on the island.
The new island, which will be developed adjacent to the Pearl Qatar, will be completed by the end of 2021, Othman said, adding that a formal announcement for the launch and naming of the new island project is expected next month.
Once completed, he said, the new island would have the capacity to accommodate around 6,000 inhabitants.
Besides the new island project, UDC is also carrying out work to further develop The Pearl Qatar, he said.
Key developments on the island that are currently in progress include Al Mutahidah Towers, Giardino Village, and Floresta Gardens.
Work to build a hospital and international school on the island is also expected to start this year.
"Each of these developments are being designed with the specific intention of further enhancing and diversifying the residential offerings on the island, attracting more investors, residents, visitors and retailers, and sustaining The Pearl-Qatar's viability for years' to come," Othman said.