Tribune News Network
Doha
HASSAD, Qatar's premier investor in food and agribusiness sectors, has increased production lines in its poultry, vegetables and fodder sectors to support the country's food security efforts, the company has announced.
The announcement was made on the sidelines of the 6th Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition 2018 (AgriteQ) organised by the Ministry of Municipality and Environment (MME) at Doha Exhibition and Convention Center (DECC).
On the occasion, Hassad Food CEO Mohamed bin Badr al Sadah said,"We aim to support the country's food security efforts by expanding our local and international investments. We conducted an in-depth research on the local market needs from the three sectors, developed suitable plans and started implementing them to support in satisfying those needs."
"For the fodder sector, we increased the cultivated lands in Hassad's fodder farms to increase the production of up to 10,000 tonnes annually, as well as introducing new products like 'Alfa Alfa'."
He said that Hassad has played a major role in meeting the local market needs from fodder products at the beginning of the blockade, adding that the company immediately provided fodder products to a number of poultry and livestock farms to ensure the continuity of local production of milk and poultry.
In the poultry sector, Sadah said,"The production of the Arab Qatari Company for Poultry Production (Al-Waha) will reach around 16 million chickens and 120 million table eggs annually. As for the vegetables, Hassad increased the cultivated land since the beginning of the blockade to reach 8,000 tonnes of vegetables per year."
During AgrtieQ, Hassad's stand is showcasing a diverse set of high-quality products produced by several of its subsidiaries. Arab Qatari Company for Agriculture Production is displaying fresh vegetables, Arab Qatari for Poultry Production (Al-Waha) is showcasing poultry products, Hassad Australia is showing chilled livestock, while Aalaf Qatar is displaying high-quality fodder products. Premium dates, basmati rice and olive oil are also on display by NAFCO.
Moreover, Hassad's stand includes a consultation Majlis, where free consultation is being provided on different topics related to the food sector. The stand also features several educational activities for children in different age groups and other interesting experiences for the exhibition visitors.