Satyendra Pathak
Doha
In a major boost to the burgeoning exchange traded fund (ETF) lineup of Qatar Stock Exchange (QSE), Masraf Al Rayan and Al Rayan Investment on Wednesday listed the world's largest single-country Islamic ETF on the Qatari bourse.
Being traded under the ticker symbol 'QATR', the Al Rayan Qatar ETF is Qatar's first Shari'a-compliant exchange traded fund that would track the performance of the 'QE Al Rayan Islamic Index (Price)' and provide investors with diversified exposure to Qatari equities.
During the fund's seeding period prior to listing, exceptional appetite from institutional investors enabled Al Rayan Qatar ETF to raise more than QR465 million (approximately $127 million). This makes it three times larger than any other ETF in Qatar or the Gulf region, and the second largest Shari'a-compliant equity ETF in the world.
To mark the launch of the ETF, the exchange welcomed the fund's founder Masraf Al Rayan and fund manager Al Rayan Investment to open the trading session by ringing the bell on Wednesday.
Al Rayan Qatar ETF and the Shari'a screening methodology of the underlying index are based on a directive issued by Al Rayan's Shari'a Supervisory Board.
The Group Securities will act as liquidity provider for the ETF units, providing continuous quotations in line with the value of the fund's assets. HSBC Qatar will be the custodian and fund administrator. Al Rayan Qatar ETF will make distributions each year and will pay a cash dividend for 2017 during the first half of 2018. The total expense ratio (TER) of the fund is 0.5 percent.
Commenting on the listing, Qatar Stock Exchange CEO Rashid Ali al Mansoori said,"As an exchange, we're delighted that the world's largest single-country Islamic ETF is available to trade exclusively in Doha. Al Rayan Investment has a strong reputation in asset management locally and the index itself makes for a Shari'a-compliant investment strategy and diversification for QSE investors."
Masraf Al Rayan Group Chief Executive Officer Adel Mustafawi said,"We expect the unusually strong demand during the seeding period to continue, supported by increasing foreign buying of Qatari public equities."
Al Rayan Investment Chief Investment Officer Haithem Katerji said,"After a considerable period of work behind the scenes, we are very proud to have launched QATR today. We have given all investors access to an excellent investment product which currently has a dividend yield of more than 5 percent. The best way to invest across Qatari shares is via QATR."
"With the global popularity of ETFs, it was opportune for us to launch this new investment product. Al Rayan Qatar ETF is perfect for investors seeking diversified exposure to Shari'a-compliant Qatari stocks with the simplicity and efficiency of buying just one share. Given the strong historic performance of the index, Al Rayan Qatar ETF offers an attractive opportunity to gain exposure to the Qatari economy," Katerji said.