Tribune News Network
Doha
Despite the economic uncertainties that prevailed in 2017, the United Development Company (UDC) was able to produce positive results, Chairman Turki bin Mohammed al Khater said in Doha on Wednesday.
"The retail leasing at The Pearl-Qatar reached 24 percent in 2017, while the residential occupancy rate remained constant in comparison with that of 2016," Turki said while addressing the company's ordinary general meeting.
The meeting approved the board's dividend recommendation of QR1.25 per share along with the company's 2017 financial results and the corporate governance report.
"This demonstrates that UDC has a viable business model with the flexibility necessary to access diversified revenue streams as needed to sustain satisfactory financial results even in turbulent times."
The foundation for UDC's financial stability, Turki said, is drawn from the attractive properties currently available and those under development at The Pearl-Qatar — all set within a safe, secure and self-sufficient community.
UDC's business strategy remains focused on creating opportunities and partnerships, and achieving growth, Chairman Turki bin Mohammed al Khater pointed out.
"The board has astutely directed the company to advance the new opportunities being developed on the island so that UDC can continue to profit from the mutually beneficial relationships that businesses at The Pearl-Qatar naturally attract."
The year 2017 has been satisfactory for UDC, even under less than stellar economic conditions, with the maturation and development of The Pearl-Qatar, he said.
Ibrahim al Othman, UDC President and Chief Executive Officer, described 2017 as another productive year for UDC.
"Good financial results were achieved under challenging conditions, the pace of development of The Pearl-Qatar continued to accelerate in a cost-effective manner and the customer experience of residents, retailers and visitors at The Pearl-Qatar was further enhanced."
Othman said major sales of land were concluded in 2017 with multiple developers for the construction of a commercial mall and mixed-use facilities."These sales demonstrate that non-UDC developments on the island are commercially viable."