Tribune News network
Doha
IHG (InterContinental Hotels Group) has partnered with Tanmiyat Real Estate to rebrand the M Doha Hotel as the Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay. The hotel will officially reopen under its new name in August 2018.
Braik bin Samikh, Chairman of Tanmiyat Real Estate, signed the agreement for Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay with Pascal Gauvin, Managing Director, India, Middle East and Africa, IHG.
The signing ceremony was held at the M Doha Hotel in the presence of dignitaries from Embassies, EU Qatar Friendship Group, Qatar Tourism Authority, in addition to representatives from IHG and Tanmiyat Holding.
The 317-room Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay will be the seventh IHG hotel and second Crowne Plaza hotel in the city. It will be close to Qatar's financial, shopping and diplomatic districts, and an easy drive from Hamad International Airport.
"We are excited to be partnering with an esteemed developer and investor like Tamniyat Real Estate in launching our second Crowne Plaza hotel in the city, Gauvin said in a statement.
"The newest neighbourhood development in Doha, West Bay is the centrepiece of Doha's majestic skyline, and given the great location and world-class amenities, we are confident that Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay will be a popular choice with both business and leisure travellers.
"This latest addition to our portfolio of hotels in Qatar will help us to further strengthen our offering to domestic and international guests visiting the country."
"At Tanmiyat Real Estate, we have confidence in our vision and mission to contribute towards Qatar's economy at both the local and international level," Samikh added.
"Today, it gives us great pleasure to realise our vision through this partnership with InterContinental Hotels Group, as one of the world's leading hotel companies.
"We have great trust that the Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay will be managed at the highest international standards. With its prime location, contemporary design, array of premium restaurants and spa facilities, the hotel is the perfect choice for both business and leisure travellers alike."