Tribune News Network
Doha
Digital Innovations has launched Blueair, a Swedish brand and a world-leader in air purification solutions from Unilever for home and professional use in Qatar.
The company stressed the importance of clean indoor air as it launched Blueair range of air purifiers for consumers in Qatar. These air purifiers are technologically advanced and are smart-home and IoT compatible. According to the World Health Organisation (WHO), air pollution is the single biggest environmental threat to human health with indoor air being up to five times more polluted than outdoor air.
"Increased awareness about the positive health benefits of breathing clean air is driving residents to turn to technology to help improve their living environment," said TR Ganesh, General Manager, Blueair Middle-East."Air-purifiers are providing consumers with peace of mind and the assurance that the air they breathe indoors is free from harmful pollutants."
Blueair's latest range is based on the Blueair patented HEPASilent technology which removes 99.7 percent of all airborne particles such as smoke, dust, pollen, bacteria, mold and pet allergens. Households, particularly with newborns whose lungs are still under development, and homes with elderly and members suffering from asthma, allergies and respiratory illnesses, would benefit from this technology. Blueair's latest range combines award-winning aesthetics, whisper silent operation, energy efficiency and the convenience of connected appliances.
"We are extremely happy to be able to play a part in bringing health and wellbeing to the people of Qatar in their homes and offices by bringing a brand that has helped millions of people around the world to feel the benefits of breathing cleaner air." said Sajed Jassim Mohammed Sulaiman, Vice Chairman and Managing Director, Digital Innovations.
Blueair also revealed its free Blueair Friend App for Android and iOS, which monitors the in- and outdoor air quality and enables users to remotely control their air purifier.