Tribune News Network
NOTHING brings people of different and diverse cultures together faster and better than food. When one joins a queue at a restaurant or at a food stall, one readily strikes conversations with complete strangers. Food breaks the barriers of language and culture; identities of region and geography faster than anything else.
For members of diaspora, food becomes even more important to understand the local culture and reach out to them and vice versa. The Qatar International Food Festival (QIIF) currently being held at the Hotel Park is one such event, which can be described as melting pot of world cultures.
One can see there crowd of different nationalities, more than a hundred, and cultures readily and happily merging their identities to join one assembled mass of people who have only one thing on their mind: Food of different flavours and cultures. Where and in front of which stall one will queue up to savour food can't be guessed and predicted by people's looks and dresses, by their language and nationality.
Every year Qatar Tourism Authority brings for the people the pleasure of eating and enjoying varieties of food at the QIIF, which has become a huge success. Thousands of people with families visit the festival to relish different kinds of cuisine and satiate their taste buds. The festival offers as many varieties of cuisine as there are ways to prepare them. Name one cuisine from any part of the world and you can find it there at the Hotel Park.
Doha's top and world-famous hotel chains are there with their offerings. The multi- specialty restaurants of the leading international hotel groups have put up their stalls there. There are niche specialty restaurants one might have heard of or read about. Food aficionados from Qatar and different parts of the world are literally spoilt for choices at the QIIF.
But the offerings are not limited to international brands and niche restaurants. There are things for the street food lovers and there is something for the health conscious people. For instance, local entrepreneurs Faisal Abdulaziz and Bayan Shokri have their unique coffee products to offer for connoisseurs of coffee. What's unique about their product is that they convert date seeds into coffee granules. And mind you, their coffee is caffeine-free that suits the health conscious coffee lovers. In this way, the QIIF helps local entrepreneurs find avenues to showcase and market their products and reach out to the people.
The festival will continue till March 25. The coming weekend, therefore, is the last opportunity for food lovers to visit the QIIF and be spoilt for choices.