The 20th Century saw an influx of new inventions, with the internet heading the list. With the influx of smart phones, our lives certainly changed forever: whether for better or for worse, the jury is still out on that one.
In his very famous book Nineteen Eighty Four, George Orwell had anticipated that there would come a time when technology and propaganda will dominate day-to-day lives. Today, his prophecy stands absolutely true and how!
These days, it is common to find people glued to their phones and tablets, oblivious to their surroundings. In fact, most often, the choice of a place to visit depends on net availability. Many a time, even family members communicate more effectively via the net.
A recent poll conducted by 'Common Sense Media' provides us with alarming statistics. The average person checks his/her phone 200 times a day. Eighty percent of teens check their phones hourly and 72 percent feel the need to respond immediately. Seventy percent people said that they prefer texting to talking.
The charm of staying connected continuously surpasses everything and each individual becomes a resident of a virtual world where the need is just to post pictures and comments. Unfortunately, it becomes a vicious cycle and one becomes a slave to their device(s).
Albert Einstein had stated that"I fear the day technology will surpass human interaction, the world will have a generation of idiots."
It is the responsibility of each parent, teacher and individual today to ensure that this does not happen.
1. The rules and boundaries set by parents when they give their child his/her first device go a long way in forming the child's digital habits.
2. A no-phone policy at the dinner table should be extended to each family member. In fact, certain rooms in the house should be declared tech-free rooms. The devices should be plugged farthest at night to ensure sleep quality and quantity.
3. Usage times must be limited and these times must be communicated to all so that one doesn't need to be available throughout the day but only at certain times.
4. A list of all the favourite things will remind what the person is actually missing from one's life if one is hooked on to the device for the whole day.
Digital Detox is the key word. Start with an hour and finally lead yourself to achieving a day without your devices. Let's all wake up before this dependence turns into addiction and we become used to living in this make-believe world. Let's live in the real world where a kind word, a smile, or, a personal message still reign supreme.
The author is an academician and blogger, and an avid reader of Qatar Tribune.