Tribune News Network
Aspire Zone Foundation acquired the Movenpick Al Aziziya Hotel, which was officially re-flagged as Al Aziziyah Boutique Hotel and will be operated from The Torch Doha.
The second hotel located in Doha's impressive Aspire Zone is one of the very few city's urban country estates. It has a large outside space and lush greenery. With the charm of an English country house and its unique Victorian style, this hidden haven has a spectacular natural landscape.
The hotel offers 140 rooms through 3 categories, ranging from stylish guest rooms to luxurious, spacious suites all traditionally designed and richly furnished, offering a cozy, warm and comfortable feel. Al Aziziyah Boutique Hotel offers a wide range of dining options as well.
Located on the first level, a favourite among guests, visitors and locals alike, Blue is a grill restaurant and offers a casual dining experience serving a wide selection of premium steaks, fresh seafood and sushi specials. The restaurant features modern interior design and a lounge-style terrace and direct access to Aspire Park.
Flavours Restaurant is the hotel's elegant all-day dining restaurant offering international dishes that are prepared in a live kitchen. Finally, resembling an old English library, Victoria Tea Lounge offers over 40 types of teas from around the world, and is well-known for its traditional afternoon tea.
The hotel has five meeting rooms and two conference spaces designed to meet the requirements of small to medium-size events, all of which feature free WiFi, as well as natural daylight and state of the art audio-visual equipment.
The property's Fitness Center features Technogym equipment and various personal training sessions. Spa facilities at Al Aziziyah Boutique Hotel include six fully equipped treatment rooms, complemented by a set of sauna, jacuzzi and steam room, separate for men and women and a temperature-controlled indoor swimming pool.
Only a short walk away from one of the largest shopping malls in Doha, Villaggio Mall, and just 25 minutes from the airport, Al Aziziyah Boutique Hotel is conveniently located in the heart of Aspire Zone, overlooking the football fields and the rest of the athletic venues. The hotel prides itself on high-quality services and focus on detail, with the addition of the lush greenery and its polished gardens, bringing a breath of fresh air in the middle of Doha.