Hisham Aljundi
Doha
AS conflicts in the region continue, especially through media outlets, there is a constant demand to reveal the truth about dishonest media people and countries as well as the unpleasant consequences of their actions, said Waddah Khanfar, chairman of Sharq Forum and the former director-general of the Al Jazeera Network.
In an interview with Qatar Tribune, Khanfar explained the current situation of media in the region and the future of freedom of speech.
"We may have to re-adjust the way we teach our journalists at universities so that we can come up with a new generation of journalists educated on the real principles of the profession," he said.
"The advent of technology was marked by the Arab Spring when the new media was used to call for democracy and positive reforms. What we are witnessing nowadays is quite the opposite because the new media unfortunately is being used to promote fake news," Khanfar added.
He predicted a better future for new media, saying it would be more balanced.
"A professional press will be back eventually because fake news will not lead to any improvement or help in decision making processes," Khanfar explained."Unfortunately, governments are the ones that receive blame because they are responsible for silencing many voices and imprisoning young people, leaving social media platforms to unknown users who manipulate news and cause crisis."
He highlighted that publishing of fake and deceptive news by the Arab media nowadays will not lead to a real knowledge which can be the base of any right political or economic decisions.
"In fact, publishing fake news destroys the political and economic systems. Thus, people are looking for something new. By doing this, regimes also destroy themselves because they give no hope to people in the future. What was based on lies and fabricated news will disappear. For instance, all the claims of the blockading countries against Qatar have been found to be untrue and therefore all the claims and positions have collapsed now," he said.
"History can't be built upon lies. Even if it happens, it is for a temporary era," Khanfar added.
Asked about the current accusations against Al Jazeera, Khanfar clarified that the network has objective principles when dealing with news and Arab issues and has a standard system of reference.
"Many of the media outlets that are government-owned have no standards. They broadcast fake news in the morning and later in the day they start showing international reactions to that news they had made up. That shows that they don't have what is called 'code of ethics'. We have never witnessed anything worse than this era in media that is being functioned politically," Khanfar said.
On the future of media, Khanfar hoped this era of 'dark media' will end soon because, according to him, he believed that what was based on lies can never last for long as there is a demand by politicians, economists and even ordinary people for truth and the honest media.
"This is a profession that requires morals and ethics and whoever has no ethics should not be in this field," Khanfar concluded.