Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR International Food Festival (QIFF) continues to run through to Sunday, (March 25)offering visitors the perfect ingredients for a memorable weekend at Hotel Park.
In addition to the daily fireworks display at 8pm, the Festival's final weekend promises entertainment for all ages. Special attractions include free cooking classes, live music performances to feed the soul, and more appearances by internationally-renowned chefs at the Cooking Theatre.
Sara al Kuwari, QIFF Project Manager at QTA, said:"We are delighted to see thousands of visitors flock to Hotel Park each day to enjoy a taste of Qatar's diverse food and beverage offering." She added:"As the festivities will soon draw to an end, we would like to invite everyone to explore this different side of food and join us for the festival's final weekend."
The festival opening times are from 4pm to 12am on weekdays (Saturday to Wednesday) and will extend to 1am on Thursday and Friday.
QIFF cooking classes
Residents and visitors who have registered will have an opportunity to join an internationally-acclaimed chef for an interactive cooking and tasting experience. The Food Network's baking guru Anna Olson will be at Sharq Village & Spa's Al Dana Restaurant for the last of QIFF's six cooking classes.
The celebrated pastry chef with programmes on international TV networks said,"I'm delighted to be in this beautiful city representing Food Network and beIN at QIFF. Doha has such a rich culinary tradition, and I can't wait to try your local delicacies, and showcase my favourite bakes from the new season of Bake with Anna Olson."
The first weekend of QIFF 2018 saw Japanese Iron Chef Masaharu Morimoto and IDAM's Doha-based Executive Chef Damien Leroux give cooking classes at their restaurants at the Mondrian Hotel and Museum of Islamic Art respectively.
Food for the soul
On Friday, (March 23),the QIFF Entertainment Stage will see Kuwaiti singer Abdulaziz Louis make his first-ever appearance in Qatar to serenade his fans between 9pm and 1am.
To his fans, he said:"It's an honour to have been chosen to be part of this festival. I come to Qatar excited to meet with my family and friends and promise you all a memorable night of entertainment!"
And on Saturday, (March 24), Lebanon's oriental music band Wahdon is set to take fans back to the golden era of Arabic music between 9pm and 11pm. The seven-member band is known for playing songs from across the Arab world.
Commenting on their upcoming performance, they said:"We believe in music as food for the soul which makes it an honour to be sharing our passion with our audience at Qatar's biggest food festival." To their fans, they added:"Don't miss Wahdon Band coming to you straight from Beirut to perform live at QIFF 2018!"
Live Cooking Theatre
QIFF's signature Live Cooking Theatre continues to bring chefs from all over the world to share their culinary tips and tricks. Canada's baking sweetheart chef Anna Olson will make her first appearance at the QIFF Theatre on Thursday (March 22)at 10pm and will return again on Friday, (March 23)at 7.20pm and 9pm. Lebanon's chef Ramzi is also set to make his first appearance on Friday at 11pm and is set to return on Saturday at 7:30pm.