By Ashraf Siddiqui
THE Embassy of Bangladesh along with expatriate community celebrated the"graduation of Bangladesh from the United Nations Least Developed Country status list to a developing state" at a grand event in Doha on Wednesday.
Held at Grand Hyatt Hotel, the event was attended by Ambassador HE Ibrahim Fakhroo, Chief of Protocol, Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Qatar, several ambassadors, Bangladesh community leaders, professionals and members of the Bangladesh business community.
Speaking on the occasion, Ambassador of Bangladesh to Qatar HE Ashud Ahmed said that members of Bangladesh diplomatic corps and the community in Qatar are celebrating a historic occasion as part of nationwide celebrations which started on March 20 and would conclude with the observance of 47th anniversary of independence and national day on March 26.
The ambassador said that embassy is observing 'Consular Service Week' with the objective of providing quick and efficient services. He asked the community to take benefit of such services.
The ambassador further said:"The birth of Bangladesh in 1971 was a major transformative event in the world. Despite being economically less advanced, it achieved freedom as a nation on the premise of strong nationalism amid opposition from many powerful countries."
Referring to Bangladesh's 'father of the nation', the ambassador said that Bangabandhu had to start the journey of his newly born country with a number of post-transition challenges including a disorderly economy, devastated infrastructure and less developed governance system. He started well and his long cherished dream was to run this country into a golden one with all progressive plans and programmes properly set.
Ambassador Ahmed further said that later Bangabandhu's daughter and the present Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina restarted implementing the strong development strategy as envisioned by 'father of the nation'. This, he said, is earning many successes in economic, social, cultural and other areas. The country's recent graduation from LDC status is the outcome of that strong development strategy that in the comity of nations stands today as 36th largest economy, he added.
Shafiq Ul Islam, a prominent community member, also gave a detailed presentation on the country's success story. The event was followed by a dinner reception.