QNA
Doha
PRIME Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani chaired the Cabinet's meeting at the Emiri Diwan premises in Doha on Wednesday.
Following the meeting, the Minister of Justice and Acting Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs HE Dr Hassan bin Lahdan al Mohannadi said that the Council welcomed at the beginning of the meeting the launch of Qatar's Second National Development Strategy (2018-2022).
The Cabinet then discussed the subjects on the meeting's schedule. The first subject was to take the necessary procedures to issue the following laws, after the Council examined the recommendations of the Advisory Council. The draft laws in question were on establishing a national council for tourism, regulating the tourism industry and regulating business events.
The second subject on schedule was the amendment of some provisions of law no. 15 of 2002 on civil aviation. The amendments aim to update the law in line with the requirements of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) and the Convention on International Civil Aviation.
The third subject on schedule was approving a draft Cabinet decision amending some provisions of law no. 26 of 2017, establishing a committee that coordinates between entities operating in Hamad International Airport.
The fourth subject on the meeting's schedule was to approve a draft decision by the Minister of Municipality and Environment to adopt international standards as Qatari as one.
The Cabinet then discussed four letters from Cabinet members and took the appropriate measures regarding them. The first letter was from HE Minister of Economy and Commerce on amending some provisions of law no. 11 of 2015 on commercial companies. The amendment involves scraping the required bank deposit of a limited liability company's capital.
The second letter was from HE the Minister of Developmental Planning and Statistics on the result of a study by the ministry on the country's demographics, and the notes of the ministers regarding them.
The third letter was from the Ministry of Transport and Communications on the periodic report on the works of the e-government committee. The report covered the period from July 1 to December 31 of 2017. The committee is chaired by HE the Minister of Transport and Communications, and has members from all the designated authorities. It is charged with the follow up of the implementation of the e-government strategy. It also coordinates between the Ministry of Transport and other ministries and governmental authorities to ensure the strategy is progressing as planned.
The fourth letter was from the head of the tax appeal committee of the Ministry of Finance. It was related to the report on the committee's work from July 1 to December 31 of 2017. The committee is chaired by a judge from the court of appeals and its members are from the designated authorities. The committee issues verdicts on the tax appeals presented. The committee then presents its periodic reports to the Cabinet on the appeals it received and the verdicts it gave regarding them.