IN line with Vodafone Qatar's commitment to promote online safety across the community, Vodafone held another digital safety activity at the 2nd Education Festival that was organised by Al Faisal Without Borders Foundation in partnership with the Ministry of Education.
This comes as part of Vodafone's AmanTECH online safety programme, which aims to equip children, parents and teachers with the right tools to navigate the digital world safely. Vodafone Qatar also participated in the first edition of the Festival in which more than 2,000 students from 150 schools were engaged with AmanTECH activities that proved to be highly popular.
For the Festival's 2nd edition, Vodafone Qatar created an augmented reality (AR) app, which brings everyday objects to life with overlaid informative videos and infographics. The 25 AR learning activities include topics such as how can technology help with education, how to stay safe using social media and how long it is good for a child to spend on screens each day.
The festival's opening day saw many visitors at Vodafone Qatar's dedicated stand where they were able to explore a house, school and caf`, to discover tips and tricks to make the most of technology wherever they are while staying safe.
Vodafone Qatar's External Affairs Director, Mohammed al Yami, said:"At Vodafone, we aim to empower the community with the right tools and understanding to navigate the digital world safely and to take full advantage of its benefits. We are committed to make AmanTECH a long-term initiative that will provide children and their parents and teachers with everything they need to know and do to stay safe in today's ever-expanding digital world."
AmanTECH works through a three-pronged approach to reach out to parents and children aged between 5 and 17 with a focus on awareness, education and technical support. The AmanTECH programme includes ongoing workshops, an online source for information and tips for parents (www.vodafone.qa/AmanTECH), where online magazines and a digital parenting guide is also available.
Vodafone's AmanTECH activities will be available at the Education Festival from 10am to 8pm at Qatar National Convention Center till March 25. (TNN)