QNA
Doha
THE Ministry of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs (MADLSA) has announced 3,798 job vacancies, 3,337 of which are in the governmental sector and 461 in the private sector.
Job seekers who have registered their information with MADLSA can apply for the vacancies beginning on Thursday, Minister of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs HE Dr Issa bin Saad al Jafali al Nuaimi said at a press conference.
Those who are not registered in the system and are unemployed can sign up for the programme by visiting one of the government service complexes and submitting the required documents.
"Job seekers will be given an opportunity to browse through all the vacancies available in both sectors and find the jobs that suit their qualifications. They will then be nominated to the companies to complete the employment procedures," the minister said.
The ministry will nominate the job seekers to the companies only after confirming that they meet the criteria. Once they pass the interview with the company, the ministry will follow up with the employment process, the minister explained.
"A decision will be made on determining the number of Qataris working in the private sector as opposed to non-Qataris," the minister said, adding,"The ministry has prepared a plan for the nationalisation of private sector jobs in the absence of enough vacancies."
Job seekers may visit the ministry's website and browse through the available vacancies that comply with their qualifications, competencies and expertise. A job seeker may choose a maximum of three vacancies in different entities.
The ministry will follow up with the designated authorities on the results of interview. Employers must mention their reasons for rejecting a candidate nominated by the ministry. Based on these reasons, the ministry will hold workshops to help the candidates develop their abilities to pass interviews in the future.
The ministry is also planning a number of workshops which will help job seekers determine which opening suits their skills and abilities. The workshops will also train them for job interviews and teach them how to write a CV. There will also be training programmes for those who fail in two consecutive interviews.