Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Red Crescent Society (QRCS) has concluded its second annual Sports Fest held under the theme, 'Keep the Fire Burning: Rise and Win as One'.
Held at Muaither Sports Club, the one-month event featured 12 soccer teams, eight cricket teams, six basketball teams, 64 carom players, 28 chess players and 16 table tennis players. The number of players was 481, a 100 percent rise from last year's 244 players.
The final day was attended by Dr Mohamed bin Ghanem al Ali al Maadheed, president; Ali bin Hassan al Hammadi, secretary-general; Dr Abdul-Salam al Qahtani, board member and general director, Medical Affairs Division; Dr Khaled Abdul-Hadi, chairman, Medical Advisory Committee; Dr Hassan al Yafi, executive director, Medical Affairs Division; and staff.
Muaither Sports Club President Saleh al Ajji and Secretary-General Dr Mahmoud al Mahmoud were also present.
During the closing ceremony, Dr Maadheed said,"Last year, it was very good, but this year, it was fantastic. It's becoming stronger every year. Last year, we had less than 300, now we are just short of 500 participants. And the level of competition is much higher. We're going to support this, as these kinds of activities bring us together. This is the purpose. We'll compete and fight on the field, but outside we should be one family QRCS family."
"When I came in 18 years ago, there were 250 staff at QRCS. Today, locally we have about 2,500. In the health clinics, you are serving some 800,000 consultations per year, as well as 220,000 in the Medical Commission Units. Internationally, we can calculate how many people benefited in 2017: We actually served over seven million people all over the world. This organisation is coming from one stage to another, and we could not do this without our workforce. So, I'd like to thank you, thank the other departments, and thank the leadership here at the headquarters. We'll try to push it further next year, and we hope we can have teams from other organisations and companies."
Dr Qahtani thanked all the participants and organisers of the event, which saw a higher level of positive spirit, team work and fair play among the players.
Dr Qahtani revealed plans to make the initiative a year-round event, as part of the cultural and sports activities of QRCS's Medical Affairs Division."We hope to have other medical institutions engaged in this sports tournament, which promotes the values of physical activity and competition," he said.