Tribune News Network
Doha
THE Qatar Charity (QC) office in Khartoum has implemented a large number of water projects in many places of Sudan to help put an end to the water problems in the country.
The projects, which include establishing water plants, drilling artesian and surface wells and providing a drilling unit to dig deep wells, benefited hundreds of thousands of people.
Director of the QC's Office in Sudan, Hussein Kermas, said:"By providing safe drinking water, Qatar Charity aims to improve the public health of poor communities and to control diseases, which spread through the use of contaminated water."
Providing safe drinking water is one of the most significant areas of the QC's work in order to help the needy people with safe potable water free of contaminants and diseases, Kermas added.
In partnership with Munazzamat Al-Da'wa Al-Islamiyya and the Qatar Red Crescent Society, QC set up four water purification plants in many villages scattered along the Nile River at a cost of QR7.5 million to cover the needs of more than 87,000 people for clean drinking water.
The water purification plants have production capacity ranging from 500 to 2,800 cubic metres per day. They are equipped with tanks, service and administrative facilities, and laboratories for water analysis.
A water plant project is currently being implemented in Wad Hamid, in the Nile River State at a cost of QR2 million, which will have production capacity of 1,800 cubic metre per day and will benefit approximately 25,000 people. There is also a plan to set up 20 water plants with different capacities in six other states at an estimated cost of about $12 million.
As part of its partnership with the Qatar Fund For Development (QFFD), QC has also started the implementation of other water projects in South and Central Darfur at a cost of about QR11 million under the framework of Qatar's Darfur Development Initiative. The projects are expected to be completed by the end of April 2018 and will provide clean water sources to a number of localities in the region.
The projects include drilling of 255 wells equipped with hand pumps, setting up of three large water plants with overhead tanks having a capacity of 50 cubic metres and equipped with an energy source (generator/solar energy), and establishing 11 medium water plants with 30 cubic metres overhead water tanks equipped with energy sources in addition to the distribution of maintenance kits for hand pumps and the formation of wells and water plants management committees.
In 2013, QC brought a drilling unit from Germany to dig deep wells in multi-layered geological areas of Sudan to reduce the cost and managed to dig 100 wells in several areas of North Kordofan, South Darfur and Gedaref.
Since its opening in 1994, QC has implemented a large number of water projects, which include 500 surface and artesian wells and 650 water coolers to benefit more than 302,000 people.