CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
A NATIONAL survey to study the prevalence, awareness and attitudes about tobacco use among adult population in Qatar will begin in April, an official has said.
Qataris and non-Qataris above 18 years old will be among the 6,000 samples to be drawn from Qatar's 2.6 million population.
Speaking at a press briefing in Doha on Monday, Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) Tobacco Control Center Director and Senior Consultant of Public Health Dr Ahmad al Mulla said the study will be conducted in randomly selected samples, including university students, outpatient clinic attendees, Primary Health Care Corporation and HMC staff, employees of all ministries in Qatar, banks and governmental companies like RasGas, Qatar Petroleum, Al Jazeera, Qatar TV, among others, to comprehensively involve all of Qatar's population, including the young adults and the working class.
"This study will start in April and I hope the field work will be finished within four months. In the next three months, we will enter the data and by the end of the year, we hope to get the results of the study," he said.
According to Dr Mulla, tobacco use (cigarette, shisha, sweika, tambak, sabeel, medwakh) is a growing trend that needs further attention and increased enforcement of policy implementation in Qatar.
He added that smoking shisha has gained popularity in Qatar, particularly among the young people, and is often glamourised as a way of reducing stress and a pleasant pastime.
Dr Mulla said the information to be gathered during the study include the nature of smoking (what the person smokes whether cigarette, shisha, smokeless cigarette, e-cigarette), quantity, the brand of the tobacco, health status of the smokers, and what their perceptions and beliefs on are smoking.
"This will help us to compare the old and new results. These updated results will help us to know how to implement future programmes and how to tackle this problem. We will also be able to develop new treatment methods for the population."
He said a study conducted in collaboration with national, regional and international organisations showed that 37 percent of Qatar's adult population smokes tobacco while 13 percent of schoolchildren aged between 13 and 15, used tobacco in different forms.
Dr Mulla said that, in Qatar, smoking and its related hazards are often perceived as a non life-threatening habit by the public. He said their goal is to help ensure that tobacco use does not become normalised in Qatar.
Dr Mulla further said there may be another study that will sample schoolchildren and healthcare professionals by September.
He added that even though it is illegal to sell cigarettes to minors in Qatar, children still get access to tobacco.
According to Dr Mulla, 2016 statistics revealed that 37 percent of those who visited the centre quit smoking while 25 percent reduced smoking, adding that a team is working on the 2017 statistics.
He added that the centre receives about 1,200 new cases of smokers annually.
He also said plan is on to open new clinics in Al Khor and Al Wakrah hospitals.