dpa
Berlin
World Cup hosts Russia take on five-time champions Brazil, holders Germany meet the 2010 winners Spain, and Argentina are up against Italy in some of the top games in a big day of friendly internationals on Friday.
With the World Cup now less than three months away, national team coaches are fine-tuning their squads. Some teams at the June 14-July 15 tournament have gone out of their way to pick tough opponents in the last two rounds of friendlies before the May 14 deadline for naming provisional squads.
Germany take on Spain in Duesseldorf before a meeting against Brazil in Berlin on Tuesday, two matches which will be key to coach Joachim Loew's final squad thinking.
Loew has picked 26 players for the two matches, but left out Dortmund midfielders Marco Reus and Mario Goetze who will still be hoping to be in the mix in Russia. He still has injured keeper Manuel Neuer unavailable.
"For me these games are not about results, which mean nothing other than prestige," Loew said. However the coach will be hoping to continue a 21-match undefeated run since losing 2-0 to France in the semi-finals of Euro 2016.
For Spain, Gerard Pique missed training earlier in the week with a fever so Nacho could partner his Real Madrid team-mate Sergio Ramos in central defence. Chelsea's Marcos Alonso could make his debut at left-back.
Atletico Madrid striker Diego Costa is welcomed back after missing the tail end of Spain's qualifying campaign because he was out of the team at Chelsea.
England coach Gareth Southgate also has some thinking to do, especially in the goalkeeping position, ahead of the game against the Netherlands in Amsterdam. He has brought four keepers into camp - with long-time No. 1 Joe Hart joined by Jordan Pickford, Jack Butland and newcomer Nick Pope - for the games against the Dutch and Italy on Tuesday.
"We want to learn things from the games about individual players and also get back reconnected with how we train, how we work and how we play because we're only 90 days away from the first game of a World Cup," Southgate said.
Argentina are meanwhile at Manchester's Etihad Stadium to meet Italy, who are beginning their recovery from failure to reach the World Cup finals for the first time since 1958.
After losing a play-off against Sweden and dismissing coach Gian Piero Ventura in November, the Italian football federation in February appointed Luigi Di Biagio to an interim tenure.
Di Biagio, who for five years steered the Azzurri's youth team, called up young strikers Patrick Cutrone and Federico Chiesa, while retaining the backbone of Ventura's squad.
"[The youngsters] must show to be ready for games of a certain level. Now it's the time to do it," Di Biagio said.
France meet fellow World Cup finalists Colombia in Saint-Denis before Didier Deschamps' squad heads to Saint Petersburg to take on Russia.
A number of other World Cup finalists are meanwhile up against each other on Friday: Portugal face Egypt in Zurich, Poland meet Nigeria, Serbia greet Morocco in Turin, and Tunisia entertain Iran.
Other World Cup teams in action on Friday are Japan (v Mali in Liege), Senegal (v Uzbekistan), Saudi Arabia (v Ukraine in Marbella), Switzerland (at Greece), Australia (at Norway), Costa Rica (at Scotland), and Uruguay (against Czech Republic in Nanjing).
On Saturday, finalists Mexico and Iceland meet in San Francisco, while also in action are Peru (against Croatia in Miami), South Korea (at Northern Ireland) and Sweden (against Chile). Finalists Denmark and Panama play in Brondby on Thursday.