Tribune News Network
Doha
Nakheel Landscapes will be backed by more than 5,000 passionate fans when they aim to successfully defend the Workers' Cup title on Friday 23 March. The company has embraced the tournament wholeheartedly after picking up a maiden title in 2017.
This year they will face Doha Pest Control in the final after defeating Alysj 4-2 on penalties in the semi-finals. In the other semi-final, Doha Pest Control beat Al Asmakh 8-7 on penalties. Both semi-finals ended 1-1 after normal time.
Now in its sixth year, the Workers' Cup aims to use football as a tool for personal and social development. The tournament, organised jointly by the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy and Qatar Stars League, particularly aims to encourage companies involved in 2022 FIFA World Cup projects to support leisure activities for their employees.
Nakheel has worked on several projects related to the 2022 FIFA World Cup'99, including the redevelopment of Khalifa International Stadium, training sites and building temporary pitches for Al Rayyan Sports Club.
Ghassan Oueijan, Nakheel's Managing Director, said excitement is building ahead of the final, which will take place at Al Duhail Sports Club.
"We're supporting the team all the way everybody is very pleased we are back in the final," said Oueijan.
"The organisation is excited about the match. We have created a tournament committee to take care of the logistics as we expect more than 5,000 people to attend the game. We are currently making the T-shirts, banners and flags.
"It will be a great day whether we win or not, but obviously we are hoping to win the tournament. This team makes everybody at the company very happy," he said
Oueijan said Nakheel's employees are fully behind the team, which won last year's final after beating Al Asmakh 3-0 at Qatar Sports Club.
"Nothing unites people like football," said Oueijan.
"It doesn't matter where you're from or what your background is, nothing gets people together like sport."At Nakheel, we have a culture which prioritises sport. We know it helps to boost morale and bring everyone together."
"This year there is a two-week gap between the semi-final and final so it has given us time to plan. It takes a lot of buses to get 5,000 people to a game, but we are happy to do it. Everybody will be cheering for Nakheel and feel proud to be part of the company," Oueijan added.
Nakheel's commitment to football is even having an effect on recruitment, said Oueijan.
"The power of football helps us to recruit," added Oueijan.
"People know we have a strong football culture and want to play for us. We even ask our recruiters to pick people who love football and are good players. However, even if people don't play football, they want to be part of our culture one that values the power of sport."
The 2018 Workers' Cup final between Nakheel Landscapes and Doha Pest Control will take place at Al Duhail Sports Club on Friday 23 March, kick-off 7:00 PM. Click here for the latest information about the tournament.