Tribune News Network
Doha
The Second Esrar Race 2018 will take place from March 23-24 from 8am to 11am at Aspire Park. More than 347 individual participants and 108 team relay participants have registered to participate in the two-day obstacle course race.
Qatar's Olympic Champion and the 2018 IAAF Athlete of the Year, Mutaz Essa Barshim, will be participating as an honourary member this year, alongside Omani national team and Fanja FC footballer, Amad al Hosni; acclaimed TV personalities, Mohammed Saadoun al Kuwari and Ali al Meslemani; and former Middle East champion in obstacle courses, Kuwaiti Yousef al Shatti.
The event's popularity last year prompted AZF to add an additional category for men and women's relay teams to last year's individual races, extending the duration of the competition to two days instead of one.
Individual races and team relays will kick off on the first day of the competition. After everyone has run once, the winners of the men and women's individual races will be announced. Meanwhile, the fastest 16 relay teams will then qualify for the Round of 16 on Saturday.
AZF has increased the number of obstacle courses from 14 to 21 this year, all set up along a distance of five kilometres in Aspire Park. All obstacles were designed and built in-house by Aspire's Logistics team. Some of the materials used were originally purchased for the 2006 Asian Games at Khalifa International Stadium, demonstrating AZF's commitment to sporting legacy.
This year's obstacles include: The Log Jam, the Low Wall, Barrel of Laughs, Tyre Mire, Container Detainer, The Big Squeeze, Leaning Wall, ZZ Hop, Netfix, Killa G'rilla, Walk of Rain, Sidewalk Shuffle, Sandbagger Hill 1, Rolling Thunder, Splashdown, Updown Updown, Sandbagger's Hill 2, Mudder's Delight, Zig Zag, and Bladder Ladder.
Interested male and female participants aged 18 and above can find out more about registration fees, terms and conditions on the 'Life in Aspire website: http://www.lifeinaspire.qa. Participants can also register their names at 6am before the first race begins.
The Second Esrar Race 2018 is organised in partnership with Diverse a Qatari business that specialises in sports events management, the Qatar Tourism Authority, Ooredoo and Al Mosak, a fitness food company.