IHG Signs Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay in Partnership with Tanmiyat Real Estate Posted on Comments 
IHG ® (InterContinental Hotels Group), one of the world’s leading hotel companies, has announced the signing of Crowne Plaza® Doha West Bay in partnership with Tanmiyat Real Estate. Currently operating as the M Doha Hotel, the property is expected to be rebranded by August 2018, aligning with IHG®’s strategy to grow the Crowne Plaza® brand across the region. 
Dr Braik Bin Samikh, Chairman of Tanmiyat Real Estate, signed the agreement for Crowne Plaza® Doha West Bay with Pascal Gauvin, Managing Director, India, Middle East & Africa, IHG. 
The signing ceremony was held at the M Doha Hotel in the presence of dignitaries from Embassies, EU – Qatar Friendship Group, Qatar Tourism Authority, in addition to representatives from InterContinental Hotels Group and Tanmiyat Holding. 
317-room Crowne Plaza® Doha West Bay will be the seventh operating IHG ® hotel and second Crowne Plaza® hotel in the city. Strategically located in Doha’s most prestigious accommodation precinct, West Bay, guests will have easy access to Qatar’s financial, shopping and diplomatic districts, as well as views of the city’s impressive skyline. Additionally, the hotel is within 20km of Hamad International Airport for the guests’ added convenience. 
Business and leisure guests staying at Crowne Plaza® Doha West Bay will experience the best of both worlds with eight meeting rooms and an executive lounge, alongside an outdoor pool, and a gym to rest and rejuvenate after a hectic workday. Guests will be spoiled for choice with five dedicated food and beverage outlets catering to all tastes. To further enhance their culinary experience, Crowne Plaza® Doha West Bay will also be home to the Indian celebrity chef Sanjeev Kapoor’s restaurant ‘Signature by Sanjeev Kapoor’, which will serve contemporary Indian cuisine to guests staying at the hotel, as well as the residents of Doha. 
Pascal Gauvin, Managing Director, India, Middle East & Africa, IHG said of the signing: 
We are excited to be partnering with an esteemed developer and investor like Tamniyat Real Estate in launching our second Crowne Plaza® hotel in the city. The newest neighbourhood development in Doha, West Bay is the centrepiece of Doha’s majestic skyline, and given the great location and world-class amenities, we are confident that Crowne Plaza® Doha West Bay will be a popular choice with both business and leisure travellers. This latest addition to our portfolio of hotels in Qatar will help us to further strengthen our offering to domestic and international guests visiting the country.’ 
Dr Braik Bin Samikh, Chairman of Tanmiyat Real Estate said: 
At Tanmiyat Real Estate, we have confidence in our vision and mission to contribute towards Qatar’s economy at both the local and international level. Today, it gives us great pleasure to realise our vision through this partnership with InterContinental Hotels Group, as one of the world’s leading hotel companies. We have great trust that the Crowne Plaza Doha West Bay will be managed at the highest international standards. With its prime location, contemporary design, array of premium restaurants and spa facilities, the hotel is the perfect choice for both business and leisure travelers alike.’ 
There are currently 414 Crowne Plaza® hotels open across the globe, with a further 86 hotels due to open in the next three to five years.