Comments 
With the onset of summer, Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara has rolled out a special spa offer for those looking for a radiant pampering at its in-house Anantara Spa. 
Starting from 1—30 April, Anantara Spa will offer an exceptional experience built on luxury, high-end facilities and expert knowledge. As every complexion is unique, a customized Elmis Facial has been designed by a beauty specialist to enhance youthful beauty to suit each individual’s skin specific needs and to address the effects of modern living and the damage caused by pollution. 
The 75-minute spa encounter will nurture radiance with a choice of result-driven facial treatments to turn back the years, restore visible brilliance, purify and calm, or rebalance and clarify. If this was not enough, guests availing the QAR 550 priced Elmis Facial, will be pampered to a 20-minute complimentary hair mask & hand and foot feet with richly nourishing treatments. 
Nazley Mohamed, Director of Spa and Wellness at Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara, said: 
Our offer has been carefully crafted to reenergize and revitalizes the body and mind. It’s a complete approach to allow guests to achieve an ultimate level of wellness and relaxation. Guests can indulge in a soothing facial treatment that is perfect for mature and tired looking skin. All skin types have been taken into careful consideration using specially formulated products to cleanse, revive, replenish and hydrate.’ 
Anantara Spa brings guests a diverse treatment menu that captures the warmth of traditional Qatari culture and a truly personalized approach to wellbeing, including private facial treatments, pedicure and manicure, soothing steam and bathing experiences (Traditional Turkish Hammam, Royal Moroccan Bath, In-villa Slumber Guru Experience, and many more). 
Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara has always been the preferred destination for tourists because of its special characteristics. Surrounded by an azure sky, inviting crystal clear water and the feel of warm sand; Banana Island Resort Doha is a perfect destination where every moment is one to cherish. 
Distinguished as a one-of-a-kind destination, Banana Island Resort Doha is an excellent choice for authentic Arabian hospitality. 
In recognition to the resort’s achievement and service excellence, Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara, has been named ‘Best Resort Spa in Doha 2017’ and ‘Best Weight Loss Program in Doha’ during the Ohlala Luxury Spa & Wellness Awards, an more recently winning the coveted title of ‘Best Luxury Family Resort – Qatar’ at the 2018 World Luxury Hotel Awards. 
For more information on, or to keep up to date with the Banana Island Resort Doha latest offerings click here .