Porsche Panamera Turbo Sport Turismo Debuts in Qatar Posted on Comments Porsche Centre Doha introduces Porsche Panamera Turbo Sport Turismo with a showcase event at its new Porsche Centre Showroom in Medina Centrale, The Pearl-Qatar. Enthusiasts of the car brand had an exclusive first glimpse of the new model. The completely new body type of the Panamera Sport Turismo is the third body version in the model line and offers the typical Panamera combination of comfort and sportiness. Its 4+1 seating concept, increased luggage compartment and low loading edge offer even greater everyday usability and maximum flexibility, with typical Porsche performance values. 
Salman Jassem Al Darwish, Chairman and CEO of Porsche Centre Doha, said: The Panamera redefined the luxury saloon segment when it was launched in 2009, and now the Sport Turismo version takes the concept of stylish design, ride comfort combined with true sports car performance to a new level. This new model benefits from all of Porsche’s sports car DNA as well as the unique seating concept and enhanced practicality. With enough space for a family of five and their luggage, yet equally as capable on the track or urban roads for daily cruising, the new Panamera Turbo Sport Turismo truly is an all-rounder.’ As one of the sportiest cars of its class, the Panamera Turbo Sport Turismo has a top speed of 304 km/h, and accelerates to 100 km/h in just 3.6 seconds, with the Sport Chrono Package. The V8 bi-turbo engine delivers 550 hp and 770 Nm of torque, with power transferred to the two drive axles via the eight-speed Porsche Doppelkupplung (PDK) and the active all-wheel-drive system. 
The new model is the first Panamera to leave the Porsche plant in Leipzig with a three-seat rear bench, with the two outside seats in individual form. A two-seat rear configuration is available as an option. The already generous luggage compartment has been enlarged by up to 50 litres. The model now comfortably accommodates five passengers and 520 litres in total, or up to 1,390 litres with the rear seats folded down. Even heavy golf bags can easily be stored on the 1,088-millimetre long loading floor. A 63 centimetre low loading edge and electronically opening tailgate make the luggage compartment easy to load. Panamera Turbo Sport Turismo 
In keeping with the overall concept of the Panamera Sport Turismo, the chassis also combines the ride comfort of a luxury saloon with the performance of a sports car. Agility is maximised through innovative chassis systems including optional rear-axle steering, adaptive air suspension with three-chamber technology as standard with the Turbo, and the electronic roll stabilisation system Porsche Dynamic Chassis Control Sport (PDCC Sport). The integrated Porsche 4D Chassis Control also analyses and synchronises all chassis systems in real time. With an avant-garde design, the Panamera Sport Turismo features a completely unique rear design from the B-pillar back, particularly characterised by powerful shoulders and new, expanded wheelhouses which give a sporty and masculine appearance. A new panoramic roof system is available as an option, the largest sliding roof of its type developed by Porsche to date. The design of the rear is dominated by the integrated, adaptive roof spoiler, a key component of the Porsche Active Aerodynamics (PAA). The angle of the roof spoiler is automatically raised to three positions depending on the driving situation and selected vehicle settings and generates an additional downforce of up to 50 kg on the rear axle. Design features which set the Turbo model apart from the Panamera range include 20-inch wheels, square twin tailpipes, side window trim finished in chrome and air outlet vents in the front wings painted to match the body. Inside, ride comfort continues with the Porsche Advanced Cockpit, bringing increased connectivity and intuitive controls. The centre console with Direct Touch Control and an integrated 12.3-inch touch display for Porsche Communication Management act as the driver’s interface to all vehicle functions. In the rear, two 10-inch touchscreens lie at the heart of the optional Porsche Rear Seat Entertainment. A full leather interior comes with the Turbo as standard. 
All Panamera models come with a VIP service package from Porsche Centre Doha including three years maintenance, a three-year warranty, and pick-up and drop-off of your vehicle for Porsche Service visits. The new Panamera Turbo Sport Turismo is now available at Porsche Centre Doha with a basic retail price of QAR 695,800. 
Visit the new Porsche showroom in Medina Centrale, The Pearl-Qatar or log on to their website for more information.