Tribune News Network
Doha
Qatar University College of Engineering (QU-CENG) has announced the winners of the 3rd ChemE Car Competition for High Schools.
Mohammed Bin Abdulaziz Al Mana Independent Secondary School, Hamad Bin Abdullah Bin Jassim Independent Secondary School and Ali Bin Jassim Secondary Independent School were named first, second and third place winners in their category.
The competition was organised by CENG Department of Chemical Engineering (DChE) in collaboration with its American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE) student chapter and sponsored by Oryx GTL Qatar.
The contest aims to encourage creativity and innovation among DChE students and also to reach out high school students to motivate them towards studies in chemical engineering. Eighteen independent high schools in Qatar participated in this year's edition.
The competition required participants to design and race a small car that is operated through chemical processes and carrying a load of water (0-500g) for a distance of between 15 and 30 metres.
Teams were given information of the load amount and distance about two hours before the competition. This year, the load was 125g and the target distance was 12.5 metres.
In the lead-up to the competition that started in December 2018, DChE team offered several sessions for the participating schools to guide them on competition guidelines, rules and safety regulations in addition to the main phases they need to go through to accomplish their car designs and calibration tasks.
Commenting on the competition, CENG DChE Head Prof Majeda Khraisheh said,"The ChemE Car Competition provides high school students with the opportunity to gain chemical engineering knowledge and expertise from experts to make the best use of chemical engineering principles and to improve their skills and capacities in this field."
CENG DChE Associate Professor Dr Fadwa El Jack said,"It is exciting to see that over 130 students from high schools participated in this year's event. Today was truly an exciting day for us. It was nice to see the students deeply engaged in the competition and to see their teachers guiding and supporting their efforts. We like to extend our gratitude to the principals and administration of the 18 participating independent schools and we look forward to seeing them again next year."
She added,"One of the main aims of the competition is to see how students overcome the technical challenges they face as they prepare for the race. Today, all student teams worked well together to address these challenges. The winner today was only 13 cm away from their target; that is amazing."
Oryx GTL Qatar Acting Public Relations Manager Thamer al Kaabi said,"Our support for the 2nd ChemE Car Competition for the second year in a row is to confirm the commitment of Oryx GTL in supporting the importance of educational initiatives in Qatar. This is in the context of the ongoing strategies and efforts to support the major educational institutions in the country in order to qualify and prepare a new generation of industry leaders, business and other disciplines, which will lead to achieve all the goals and also the Qatar National Vision 2030."