QNA
Doha
Minister of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs HE Dr Issa bin Saad al Jafali al Nuaimi, who is also chairman of National Committee for Combating Human Trafficking, on Thursday honoured participants in the two workshops on combatting human trafficking.
The participants were honoured at the closing of the workshop to support the capacity of national judicial and prosecutorial agencies in combating human trafficking and the other workshop on identifying human trafficking to journalists and media personnel and students.
The workshops were organised by the National Committee for Combating Human Trafficking in cooperation with United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) within the Arab initiative to build national capacity in combating human trafficking in the Arab countries, which was launched in 2010 with the support and sponsorship of the State of Qatar.
The first workshop was attended by 20 national personnel in the judiciary, public prosecution, police and legal affairs at the Ministry of Justice, while 20 media specialists attended the second workshop.
Head of the Human Rights Department in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Ambassador Faisal bin Abdullah al Henzab, who is also vice-chairman of the National Committee for Combating Human Trafficking, said both workshops aimed to build the specialist national capacities in the field of combating human trafficking, which comes as part of the programme to support the national competencies in the Arab countries.
He added that training the Qatari personnel to build their competencies in the field of combating human trafficking, being in law enforcement authorities or media professionals is very important, to gain skills in dealing with human trafficking cases.
"The first priority of the National Committee for Combating Human Trafficking was to set a strategic yearly plan that is revisited annually on three main axes. The first axis is related to directed awareness to media outlets, training along the lines of the workshop to train personnel in the judiciary, prosecution and police, and finally cooperating with regional and international organizations through the regional office of the UNODC," he said.
Ambassador Henzab said is a strong relation between UNODC through its GCC regional office and the committee through the Arab initiative which was supported by Qatar with $6 million.
Henzab said Qatar continues its support for anti-human trafficking efforts as it works on promoting and protecting labour rights, starting with the great developments achieved in the recent years through the technical cooperation with the International Labor Organization.
"The national capacity training programme on human trafficking comes as part of the close and extended partnership between (UNODC) and the government of Qatar, represented by the National Committee for Combating Human Trafficking. The programme aims to develop the national system for the prevention and control of the crime of human trafficking," UNODC GCC representative Hatim Ali said.