QNA
Qatar
Agricultural production this summer is likely to increase to meet 50 percent of local needs, Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohammed bin Abdullah al Rumaihi has said.
"In difficult summer conditions, we may not achieve a high level of agricultural production of up to 100 percent to meet local needs. But God willing, this year we will at least double the production to 50 percent from 20 to 30 percent in the summer," Rumaihi said during the concluding ceremony of the sixth Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition at the Doha Exhibition and Convention Center on Thursday.
He stressed the importance of achieving a high level of food security and production in the country."This is our responsibility," he added.
During the event, Rumaihi also honoured the sponsors, participating companies, distinguished Qatari farms, fishermen and livestock breeders.
He said the exhibition was of great importance with the Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani and Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani according priority to the agricultural sector and the issue of food security.
The minister expressed his satisfaction with the benefits for everyone who participated in the exhibition.
He said during the three days of the exhibition many deals and agreements were concluded between businessmen, farmers and companies.
Foreign countries have also benefited greatly from their participation as their representatives met specialists in agriculture, livestock and fisheries sectors.
Rumaihi said the exhibition was a great success for participants as they gained knowledge about agriculture.
He pointed out that one of the activities was production exhibition sponsored by Weill Cornell Medical College and the Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development.
He said five Qatari schools participated in the exhibition this year and their production was distinctive and clear.
He said the exhibition was a platform for participants to learn about the latest developments in the agricultural sector, share experiences and explore investment and business opportunities in this vital sector.
He said the exhibition, with the participation of a group of experts, specialists and stakeholders, underscores the keenness of Qatar and the wise leadership to promote the agricultural sector and make it a top priority for the country as the cornerstone of economic diversification.
The exhibition also included panel discussions, presentations, reports and open forums, as well as presentation on the most important opportunities and latest technologies that can be used to support the growing agricultural sector in Qatar.
Among the highlights of the exhibition was the Enterprise Reconciliation Platform, a specialised platform for matching enterprises and businesses to meet senior decision-makers and agricultural leaders from both the public and private sectors, as well as auctions.
The exhibition provided an educational theater for children and young people, which contributed greatly to the establishment of the concept of agriculture in addition to a mini zoo that included several types of animals and birds in order to provide them and other visitors with educational experiences.