Tribune News Network
Doha
C-level executives and business leaders in Qatar"overwhelmingly agree" on cloud computing's positive and transformative impact, according to new findings released on Friday.
Commissioned by security and cloud experts F5 Networks and conducted by research agency Think Positive, the study is one of the most in-depth of its kind to involve board-level decision-makers.
The results are the most up-to-date gauge on current attitudes to the cloud, drawing on the views of c-level executives and business owners from across the region.
"Cloud computing has significant potential to radically alter how businesses and organisations run in the GCC," said Diego Arrabal, VP - Middle East, Turkey and Africa, F5 Networks.
"This new study shows that, while the region still has plenty of room to ramp up cloud deployment projects, the overall recognition of the technology's possibilities is at an all-time high. Decision-makers in the region see the cloud as a business priority. Firms that continually innovate and build a sustainable cloud strategy will increasingly stand out from their competitors, meet intensifying compliance targets, and be better able to substantively contribute to major government-backed transformation projects."
Although the GCC is relatively early in its multi-cloud embrace compared to mature markets, such as the USA and parts of EMEA, there is widespread and enthusiastic receptivity for the technology's potential.
Hundred percent of Qatari executives believe the cloud can have a positive impact on market share and help to displace competitors. Around 97 percent also stated it can improve brand perception, improve innovation and have a positive impact on the customer experience.
Similarly, decision-makers were keen to highlight the cloud's likely key role in driving major government-led transformation initiatives. Qatar was most enthusiastic here of all surveyed regions, with 100 percent saying the cloud would be integral to the ongoing rollout of Qatar National Vision 2030.
The importance of local regulations as a constructive cloud conduit was also emphasised, with 68 percent stating they had a favourable influence.
Cloud computing's most commonly cited benefits in Qatar include greater business efficiency (60 percent of surveyed businesses), followed by agility and operational flexibility (54 percent), customer service (41 percent), cost savings (38 percent), time to market (32 percent), and scalability (30 percent).