Tribune News Network
THE introduction of 'smart school buses' developed by Qatar's lone public transport company Mowasalat is a welcome step that promises to go a long way towards ensuring the safety of schoolchildren during their commute between home and school.
The Traffic Department has installed a new radar system on school buses on a trial basis before embarking on full-scale implementation of the scheme in the country.
The new radar system will help identify the drivers who illegally overtake school buses while they drop schoolchildren at the bus stop putting the students at risk of being hit by vehicles speeding past their buses. According to an official of the Traffic Department who announced launch of the experiment on Tuesday, this innovative system will help check road mishaps involving schoolchildren by catching the offending motorists who can be held to account.
When a smart school bus equipped with the new device stops to drop students who have to cross the road, a 'stop' sign is activated by the bus driver.
The radar installed on the bus will then be able to identify any vehicle that gets past the school bus. Safety norms require the drivers to wait until the school bus crew drop students but some inconsiderate drivers always happen to rush past a stationary school bus dropping students in utter disregard of the safety norms, endangering the lives and limbs of the schoolchildren. The radars on the smart buses are meant to catch such violators who can be reined in through imposition of penalties.
The other fixtures to enhance the safety of students travelling to schools and back on these smart buses will include seatbelts for each occupant, CCTV cameras and TVs that run awareness programmes for the students. The buses will have emergency exits too. Even the engines of the buses are modified to stop automatically in case of outbreak of fire on the vehicle; the tyres are also puncture-proof. Another safety feature of the special tyres is their bolts sealed with red plastic that allows the driver to check whether they have been fiddled with before he gets behind the wheel.
The first of their kind in the region, these school buses address the concerns of school-going children's parents about the safety of their minor wards during their transportation to the school and back home.
This smart move by the Traffic Department with operation from the Mowasalat is in line with Qatar's policy to ensure safety of all with top priority given to the safety and protection of children, the most vulnerable group in the population. The 'safety first' motto of the Qatar government has seen enactment of laws and launch of awareness campaign to ensure safety on the roads, at work sites, in public places like movie theatres, malls and shopping centres, beaches, parks and recreation venues besides the residential neighbourhoods, multi-storey apartments, and last but not the least, in labour camps and workers' accommodations.
Thanks to relentless efforts in this direction, the country's roads are safer today, there are negligible worksite accidents, beaches are more safe than ever before for swimmers and public places are almost free of unpleasant incidents. And consistent efforts by the concerned ministry to maintain public hygiene and keep the environment clean ensure safe living protected from health hazards and diseases. In a safe and secure country like Qatar development takes wings.