Tribune News Network
Doha
Qatar Insurance Company (QIC)-owned Q Life and Medical Insurance Co (QLM), has signed an agreement in Moscow to expand its network of medical service providers in Russia.
The network includes around 700 service providers, including the largest hospitals within the Russian state, offering medical services to QLM customers, QIC said in a press statement on Monday.
"This step is a confirmation of the company's keenness to provide the best methods for its customers to benefit from the services it provides,"the statement added.
The expansion coincides with the Fifa World Cup, which is set to be held in Russia in mid-June this year.
QLM will ensure continuous medical insurance protection to its members representing prominent institutions of Qatar and those present at different venues of the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia, QIC noted.
The QLM medical network will cover all the cities where the World Cup matches will be held, such as Moscow, St Petersburg, Kazan, Nizhny Novgorod, etc.
During a visit to Russia by senior executives of QLM, major hospitals and medical centers were interviewed and reviewed within the network to ascertain the quality of the services they would provide to the company's customers.
Most of QLM network providers in Russia are accredited by Fifa.
Salem Khalaf al Mannai, Deputy Group President and CEO of QIC, said,"Fifa World Cup 2022 in Qatar is a historic event and inspired by the passion of Qatar towards sports.
"This prompted us to ensure the provision of a network of medical service providers of the highest quality and efficiency and geographical spread, ensuring the provision of health care services across the globe.
"The company's strategy for the future is to reach its objectives of global expansion and to enter new markets. From this point of view, the company is entering into direct contracts with service providers worldwide as one of the steps to be announced soon."
He further said,"The Qatari market has become a global market in which all segments from around the world are present and this is a motivation to continue to develop and provide global services that suit these segments and their aspirations. QLM is pursuing the QIC's approach in the planned growth of the Group in world markets.
"The Group's presence and spread globally paves the way for QLM to spread through the companies and QIC's branches.
"The expansion in Russia is deemed an important addition to the current network owned by QLM. This is the largest global network of medical service providers including major hospitals, medical clinics, diagnostic centres, laboratories, radiotherapy facilities, pharmacies, physiotherapy centres, dental centres and optical clinics."
Ahmed Mohamed Zebeib, senior executive at QLM, said,"QLM is always proactive and keen to provide the most comprehensive service to its customers. Providing the largest network of healthcare providers is a testament to this approach.
"The company has achieved a qualitative leap, which is evident by the size of its customer base at the local or regional level. To keep pace with this growth, the company has relied on modern technologies in providing its services.
"It has an in-house, 24-hour call centre which enables communication from the outside and within the country to acquire the service from the places of customer presence. The call centre also employs a multi-lingual staff to facilitate dealing with all customers of the company."
He added,"We have the largest network of service providers in Qatar.
"We at QLM give our customers complete freedom to utilise the services of the nearest treatment centre. We also have representative offices at major hospitals to ensure the highest level of health care services for our customers around the world."