QNA
Doha
Minister of Culture and Sports He Salah bin Ghanem al Ali has stressed Qatar's keen interest to promote poetry as part of Qatar's national heritage.
In his remarks on the sidelines of the celebration of World Poetry Day, the minister said Qatar, like the rest of the Arab countries, has a long history with poetry, adding that there is also a strong presence of poetry at all social and national events in Qatar, such as weddings and national events.
He said the ministry's keen attention to poetry and the establishment of a dedicated poetry centre (Diwan Al Arab) stems from the deep relation between poetry and the Qatari society, adding that people have always been affected by poetry in a way or another.
He added that Qatar has been interested in the printing of various books, including poetry.
"The generations that preceded us have done their part in this regard and had many poetry books printed. Now, we build on that and move to a new stage by supporting the emerging publishing houses in Qatar to publish poetry books," the minister said.
On the ministry's sponsorship of young poetry talents, he said,"The role of Diwan Al Arab Center is to discover talents and support them. The Ministry of Culture and Sports has a keen interest in poetry of all kinds, which were represented in Diwan Al Arab's celebration of the World Poetry Day at local and foreign levels as the celebration featured poems from various Arab and foreign countries."
"We see this international event as an opportunity for Qatari and resident poets to come closer and build bridges of intercultural cooperation."
Director of the Qatar Poetry Center Shabib al Nuaimi said the celebration of World Poetry Day, which was organised in cooperation with the Qatar Centre for Cultural and Heritage Events, is an open-ended poetry oasis for all poets, where many works were presented.
Among the works that attracted public attention was the 'Poetry puzzles' presented by poet Ali bin Erhama al Marri, who explained that the art of the poetic puzzle, which was popular in social gatherings, an art that tests the participants poetry knowledge, has a wide audience among young people.
During the ceremony, Qatari poetry battles 'Ranks of the Diwan Al Arab' was inaugurated, in which two teams of poets stand in two facing lines and battle to improvise poetry verses till one of the teams win.
Marri added that Qatari youth from the secondary schools had been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and Higher Education, where a group of students have been selected to undergone intensive training by veteran poets at the centre to develop their talents.