Tribune News Network
Doha
The key to fighting the spread of tuberculosis (TB) is to remove the stigma attached to the disease through providing education and accurate information about how it can be acquired, said Dr Muna al Maslamani, medical director of Hamad Medical Corporation's (HMC) Communicable Disease Center (CDC).
"There is still much to be done to raise public awareness of TB both, in Qatar and internationally. The more we educate people about risk factors and prevention, the greater the chance we have to eliminate it," she said."I encourage the community and healthcare professionals to attend our World TB Day events this year to learn about the condition and ways we can fight to end it."
As part of efforts to fight the disease, the CDC is taking the fight against tuberculosis into the community with a public education, awareness and prevention event planned for Friday, March 23 between 3pm and 6pm at Lulu Hypermarket in Al Khor Mall.
Members of the public will have an opportunity to learn how to identify and prevent the infectious disease and clinical teams from HMC will offer free basic health checkups.
World TB Day, which is recognised on March 24 each year, is designed to build public awareness of tuberculosis.
The disease remains an epidemic in much of the world, causing nearly 1.7 million deaths each year, mostly in developing countries.
Tuberculosis, commonly referred to as TB, is a contagious infectious disease that usually attacks the lungs. It can also spread to other parts of the body, including the brain and spine. A type of bacteria called Mycobacterium tuberculosis causes the disease.
The disease is classified as latent TB or active TB, with signs and symptoms of active TB including a cough that lasts three or more weeks, coughing up blood, chest pain, unintentional weight loss, fatigue and night sweats.
In recognition of World TB Day, the CDC will hold an event on March 22 at its facility in Hamad Medical City to acknowledge the occasion with staff and patients.
Besides, awareness events are planned from 8am to 12pm in the main lobbies of Hamad General Hospital, Rumailah Hospital, Al Khor Hospital and Al Wakra Hospital.
Hospital visitors will learn about TB, have the opportunity to receive a free basic health checkup and receive educational leaflets highlighting the condition.
A lecture for healthcare professionals focusing on steps to eradicate the infectious disease will also be held on March 26 from 7am to 8am in Hajar Auditorium in the Hamad Education Center.
"Globally, more than two billion people are infected with TB. But as a disease, people should know that TB is both preventable and curable. In Qatar, we have a very low incidence of TB, which is the result of our infectious disease control programme and education initiatives," said Dr Maslamani.
She added,"In 2017, we screened 11,000 patients referred from HMC facilities, primary care centres, the Medical Commission, private hospitals and Qatar Red Crescent. At the CDC, we have a highly specialised medical team that provides consultations and treatment for patients. If we identify someone who has been exposed to TB, we provide them with preventive treatment. Healthcare for TB patients in Qatar is free."