Tribune News Network
Doha
ALYSJ finished third in the sixth edition of Workers' Cup by defeating Al Asmakh F.M. 3-0 in play-off at the Al Duhail Stadium on Friday.
While Al Asmakh walked off the field after a disappointing show, ALYSJ had the last laugh, ending their remarkable campaign on a high.
Eric Boateng (21st minute), Vincent Nortey (30th) and Ezequiel Kouku (46th) scored for the winners. Ezequiel was adjudged man of the match.
"We can look back at a very successful tournament," ALYSJ coach Mahmoud Fuqaha said."I'm proud of my players."
"It was supposed to be an even match, but after the first goal, things started going their way," Al Asmakh coach Jehd Shegara said.
"I don't think we played that bad. The players fought hard from the start. They created chances, so it was difficult to lose by a 0-3 margin. But they deserve all the credit in the end, they reached the semifinals," he added.
Al Asmakh F.M. had lost to Doha Pest Control 7-8 on penalties in the first semifinal. The tie-breaker was enforced when the teams played out a 1-1 draw after 50 minutes of regulation time.
ALYSJ also lost their semifinal, 2-4 to holders Nakheel, on penalties. Both sides played out a 1-1 draw at full time.
The final of the tournament, organised by the Qatar Stars League and sponsored by Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy, is scheduled for March 23. This year's edition kicked off on February 2. Entry is free for the public.
QSLM confirm Qatar Cup dates, venue and kick-off time
The Qatar Stars League Management (QSLM) announced the dates, venue and kick-off time of the Qatar Cup that features the top four clubs in the QNB Stars League.
Al Duhail, Al Sadd and Al Rayyan have been assured of the first, second and third place respectively in this season's QNB Stars League. Al Gharafa and Umm Salal, on same number of points (32) with the former having better goal difference, are battling for the fourth position that has gone right down to the wire.
The Qatar Cup format is one-off semifinals and final. The semifinals will pit the first against fourth-placed team and second against third-placed side. In case of tie after regular time, matches will be decided in tie-breaker without extra time.
The semifinals will be played on 21st and 22nd April, and the final is scheduled for April 27. All matches will be played at the Al Sadd Stadium at 19:00.
The QSLM supervises, manages and organises the Qatar Cup as part of its mission to develop professional football in Qatar. The tournament has immensely contributed to the game's growth in the country.
The 2013-14 season marked a new beginning in the history of the Heir Apparent's Cup when it was renamed as Qatar Cup.
Al Sadd are the defending champions.
Al Kharaitiyat-Al Wakrah playoff set for April 14th
The Qatar Stars League Management has scheduled the play-off between Al Kharaitiyat and Al Wakrah for a place in next season's QNB Stars League for Saturday, April 14th at the Al Ahli Stadium. The match will kick off at 18:20.
The play-off is between the 11th-placed team in the QNB Stars League and Second Division runners-up.
Al Kharaitiyat were assured of the 11th spot following their 3-2 victory over Qatar SC in Week 21, while Al Wakrah finished second behind Al Shahania in the Second Division whose champions directly qualify for the QNB Stars League.
Al Kharaitiyat moved to 16 points, four more than Al Markhiya, who were relegated after losing to new champions Al Duhail 2-4 with only one round of matches remaining.
If the tie ends in a draw after regular time, an extra time of 30 minutes (divided into two halves) will be allowed. If the deadlock still continues, it will be decided in tie-breaker.
Al Shahania got relegated to the Second Division last season after losing the play-off to Qatar SC by a lone goal.