Ailyn Agonia
Doha
SEVERAL Malaysian nationals gathered at the Malaysian Embassy in Doha on Friday to bond over traditional Malaysian dishes and sweets during the month's edition of Night Market.
The food bazaar was spearheaded by the Malaysian Association of Qatar (MAQ) and featured about 12 vendors showcasing a variety of Malaysian dishes including some of the country's popular desserts.
The event was headed by MAQ President Redzuan Nordin, MAQ Vice-President Maizatul Lina and other officers of the Association. It was also supported by the Embassy and attended by some officials headed by Ambassador HE Dato' Ahmad Fadil Bin Shamsuddin.
According to the organisers, the event is held at least once a month by the Association as a form of bonding and networking activity of the Malaysian community in Qatar. Currently, there are about 5,000 Malaysians residing in the country. During the Holy Month of Ramadan, they plan to hold the bazaar every Friday in another venue.
"As MAQ, our tagline is basically 'Bringing Malaysians Together'. During our night market or bazaar community members gather to bond over Malaysian food. Many people enjoy traditional Malaysian dishes which include rice, soup, beef and chicken dishes and Malaysian special sweets. This is basically a fun event," Nordin said.
Speaking about the MAQ programmes, he said the Association is at the forefront of organising several activities to engage the Malaysian expats in Qatar such as through sports activities. On April 13, MAQ will be hosting its first ever Gala Dinner which intends to celebrate the 18-year milestone of the Association.
"After 18 years of establishing MAQ, we will hold for the first time a special Gala Dinner with the theme 'A Night of Inspiration'. Around 300 Malaysians are expected to take part in the gathering wherein we will also acknowledge and honour some of the achievers in our community in their respective professions, in sports and in schools. We have a small community in Qatar and the Association looks forward to the continuous support of the nationals," Nordin added.
Commenting on the event, Ambassador Fadil underscored the impact of such programme in further uniting the members of the community.
"We hope this kind of event would solidify the relations among the Malaysian community. Some of them are actually here not to get profit but to support the community and network with other nationals," the ambassador said.