Reuters
LONDON
GlaxoSmithKline has quit the race to buy Pfizer's consumer healthcare business, endangering an auction the US drugmaker hoped would bring in as much as $20 billion.
It was not immediately clear whether there were other offers for the business, which includes Advil painkillers and Centrum vitamins, following this week's deadline for binding bids.
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), which announced its withdrawal on Friday, was seen as the frontrunner to buy the assets after Reckitt Benckiser left the race late on Wednesday. Johnson & Johnson stepped away from the auction in January.
A source familiar with the matter said GSK declined to make a final bid for the assets in the end.
"While we will continue to review opportunities that may accelerate our strategy, they must meet our criteria for returns and not compromise our priorities for capital allocation," GSK Chief Executive Emma Walmsley said in a statement.
GSK shares rose nearly 4 percent, as investors' concerns about a potential dividend cut eased.
Pfizer said on Friday it continued to evaluate potential alternatives for the business, which include a spin-off, sale or other transaction, as well as retaining it.
"We have not yet made a decision, but continue to expect to make one in 2018," a spokesman said.
Sources familiar with the matter said on Thursday it was possible there were other bids. On Friday, a source said that if not, Pfizer could try to tap private equity funds.
Pfizer is the world's fifth-largest player in consumer health with 2.5 percent of a market bolstered by aging populations and growing interest in health and wellness.
The business, which also includes Chapstick lip balm and Caltrate supplements, is seen as attractive but has come to market at a bad time. GSK and Reckitt are under shareholder pressure to exercise financial discipline, while other potential suitors, such as Bayer and Sanofi are busy with other projects.
What is more, the global consumer health market has slowed, from 4-6 percent like-for-like sales growth to 0-3 percent growth, Morgan Stanley analysts said in December.
Major players in the over-the-counter market have been grappling with pricing pressure stoked by online players such as Amazon and private label competitors.
Pfizer's hope of fetching around $20 billion translated to a multiple of about 20 times the unit's core earnings, according to Bernstein analysts, in line with past deals in the sector during faster growing times.
Differences in price expectations also hobbled German drugmaker Merck KGaA's attempts to sell its consumer products unit.