Tribune News Network
Doha
DR Salha Bujassoum, Senior Consultant, Haematology and Oncology, and Director of the Hereditary and High-Risk Screening Program at Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC), has announced that in 2017, 800 individuals (male and female) were referred to the Hereditary Cancer and High-Risk Screening Clinic for evaluation associated with their risk of hereditary cancer.
Since the establishment of the Clinic in 2013, 2,029 patients have benefited from genetic assessments, resulting in decreased cancer risk, early detection and targeted treatment.
The genetic counselling and testing service, which is part of the Hereditary and High-Risk Screening Clinic at the National Center for Cancer Care and Research (NCCCR), provides a comprehensive genetic risk assessment for patients who are concerned about their hereditary cancer risk because of a personal and/or family history.
The multidisciplinary clinic aims to identify patients at high risk of developing cancer owing to young-onset diagnosis, a strong family history, or a positive genetic test result. Staff at the clinic provide targeted therapies, including prophylactic surgery (surgery as a preventive measure) and chemoprevention (use of medication to lower the risk or prevent cancer), and work with patients to incorporate prevention strategies into their life that can help reduce their cancer risk.
According to Dr Bujassoum, who is also Program Director of the Medical Oncology Fellowship training program at NCCCR, while cancer is a common disease, some individuals are at greater risk of developing it owing to inherited gene faults (mutations). She said that inherited gene faults are responsible for around five to ten percent of all cancers.
Dr Reem Jawad al Sulaiman, an American Board Certified Genetic Counsellor at NCCCR, said the genetic counselling and testing service uses a multidisciplinary and collaborative approach.
"We are a multidisciplinary team with extensive experience in genetic counselling and expertise in a variety of specialities. Our team includes a board-certified genetic counsellor, a medical oncologist with extensive experience identifying hereditary cancers, and physicians and surgeons from various subspecialities, including gynaecology, gastroenterology, dermatology, endocrinology and surgery. Our goal is to help patients make the best decisions for their health, and the health of their family, based on their cancer risk," said Dr Al Sulaiman.
"Our role often extends beyond the individual patient and this is especially true in the case of patients who are found to have gene mutations or to be carriers of mutated genes; having a gene mutation or being a carrier of mutated genes means there is a 50 percent increased cancer risk," added Dr Al Sulaiman.
If an individual has a strong family history of cancer and the genetic counsellor deems the individual to be at high risk of having a gene mutation, the counsellor will talk to the patient about the process of genetic testing, including the pros and cons of testing and the possible implications for the patient's health, and the health of their family.
Genetic counsellors play an important role in helping patients understand what they can do to reduce their risk of developing cancer, including making lifestyle changes, having regular cancer screenings, taking medications that have been shown to lower the risk of developing certain cancers and considering specific risk-reducing surgeries.
"For some individuals, the knowledge that they have a particular gene fault that has been linked to cancer can help to reduce the stress and anxiety caused by not knowing. Understanding and dealing with a strong family history of cancer can be challenging. A genetic counsellor can help patients, and their families, by providing information, resources and support that can help guide informed decisions about genetic testing and risk-reducing strategies," said Dr Al Sulaiman.