Tribune News Network
IT comes from the horse's mouth. Officials of two major workforce providers to Qatar--Philippines and Nepal--have expressed satisfaction at the condition of workers from their respective countries in separate talks with this newspaper recently.
In an exclusive interview, the Philippine Deputy Minister of the Department of Labour and Employment Ciriaco Lagunzad told Qatar Tribune that the Philippines appreciates the effective steps Qatar is taking to protect the rights of workers and the tangible benefits accruing from them. This is a welcome development that encourages Philippines to send its nationals to work in Qatar, the visiting Philippines official said, adding that the Filipino community enjoys working in Qatar, and the countries that require expatriate workforce need to take a leaf out of Qatar's law book.
A little over a week earlier, Nepal's Ambassador to Qatar HE Ramesh Prasad Koirala said that Nepalese migrant workers engaged in different ongoing projects in Qatar are treated well by the host country. He pointed out that there are very few instances of labour-related issues and that he is satisfied with the overall condition of workers from his country.
These comments are as much an acknowledgement of the positive impact of the labour law reform Qatar has carried out to protect workers' rights but also a strong endorsement of the new legislation that reflects Qatar's commitment to the welfare of expatriate workers.
It is worth mentioning here that Qatar had still earlier won applause from the International Transport Workers'Federation (ITF) for its labour law reform initiative which it hailed as a 'historic breakthrough'.
"For the ITF, this means a potential change for the workers in aviation, ports and in public transport. We will now work within this agreement to build protection for them as workers, with good, sustainable jobs, recognising international standards and best practices,"
ITF president Paddy Crumlin is reported to have said.
The closure by the International Labour Organisation (ILO) of a cooked-up complaint against Qatar long ago and the ILO decision to shelve an inquiry into the alleged exploitation of expatriate workers engaged in the World Cup 2022 projects did prove that Qatar has been the victim of a misinformation campaign orchestrated by the vested interests frustrated over Qatar's winning the right to host world football's biggest event, the FIFA World Cup in 2022.
As of now, critics have been silenced as implementation of the new labour law has delivered tangible benefits to the migrant workers in the country. It's a huge step forward towards protecting the rights of every expatriate worker in Qatar. Wages are transferred directly to the bank accounts of the workers ensuring that salaries are paid on time. The new regulations have made it easier for migrant workers to change jobs and leave the country. A temporary minimum wage of QR 750 has been fixed for migrant workers to be raised after a review. In addition to the enhanced salary, workers are also entitled to free accommodation, food and health care paid for by employers. Under the new law, all job contracts must now be approved by the Ministry of Labour, eliminating any possibility of malpractice and malfeasance indulged in by the recruitment agencies or the employers.
To Quote: the Philippine Deputy Minister of the Department of Labour and Employment again,"Qatar has become a regional role model in the matter of treatment of its migrant workforce, and this encourages us to engage with it positively and participate in the preparations for the 2022 FIFA World Cup to be staged in Qatar".
The Filipino minister seems to be echoing the views of the ITUC General Secretary Sharan Burrow who, in his comments on Qatar's labour reforms, is reported to have said:"Qatar has set a new standard for the Gulf states, which must be followed by Saudi Arabia and the UAE where millions of migrant workers are trapped in 'modern-day slavery'".