Tribune News Network
Doha
HAMAD Medical Corporation (HMC) is improving the lives of children with Down syndrome by providing access to specialist therapeutic and educational resources through its Early Intervention Program at the Child Development Center and Therapy Services, Rumailah Hospital.
Down syndrome is a genetic condition caused by the presence of all, or a partial extra copy of, chromosome 21. The condition, which is the most common chromosome abnormality, is typically associated with characteristic physical features, some health and developmental challenges and some level of intellectual disability.
The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that the incidence of Down syndrome is 1 in 1,000 births worldwide. Approximately 3,000 to 5,000 children worldwide are born with Down syndrome each year.
Child Development and Rehabilitation Service specialists at HMC's Child Development Center and Therapy Services say early intervention and rehabilitation are the key to helping children with the condition thrive. Currently, there are 73 children with Down syndrome under the age of three receiving care through the Early Intervention Program. Each year, the program receives between 40 and 50 new referrals.
While individuals with Down syndrome are more likely to have certain medical conditions such as congenital heart defects, hearing and vision problems and gastrointestinal issues; many of these conditions are now treatable. Today, most individuals with Down syndrome lead healthy lives, enjoying a higher life expectancy than ever before.
Dr Sona Fayed Tahtamouni, paediatric consultant, Child Development Center and Therapy Services, explained:"Children with Down syndrome generally have an increased risk of certain health problems, including congenital heart defects, epilepsy, leukemia, thyroid diseases, and hearing and vision disorders. They may also have a weak immune function. Regular screening for health problems common in people with Down syndrome is recommended throughout the individual's life."
Dr Tahtamouni maintained that the quality of life for individuals with Down syndrome can be improved by meeting their healthcare needs and stressed the importance of early intervention programmes.
Parents of two-year-old Layanne Fahmi, one of the children currently receiving care at HMC's Child Development Center and Therapy Services, say they appreciate the benefits of early intervention programmes.
"We are glad that our daughter is being cared for by a team of experts who are not only caring but empathetic toward us. Layanne is presently undergoing rehabilitation services, including occupational, physical and speech therapies, as well as special education services at the Center. This intervention programme has helped us as a family and fills us with hope for our daughter's future."
To highlight World Down Syndrome Day, observed globally on March 21, HMC organised a family day for patients and their families at Bayt Al Dhiyafah in Hamad Bin Khalifa Medical City from 10am to 3pm. Awareness events were also held from 8am to 12pm across the main lobbies of Women's Hospital, Hamad General Hospital, Rumailah Hospital, Al Khor Hospital, Qatar Rehabilitation Institute, and the Women's Wellness and Research Center.
The Ministry of Development Planning and Statistics also participated, providing gifts to children.