QNA
Doha
Qatar National Counter-Terrorism Committee has published the National List of Terrorist Classification, which includes the classification and listing of 20 individuals and 8 entities.
This announcement comes in accordance with Decree-Law No. 11 of 2017, which amends certain provisions of Law No. 3 of 2004 on combating terrorism.
In a statement, the committee said the amendment provides for the inclusion of individuals and entities to whom the provisions of the law apply in published lists, which is consistent with the requirements of the UN Security Council (UNSC) and which applies to all states.
It is worth mentioning that Qatar has always been implementing UN Security Council resolutions and penalties since the establishment of the National Counter-Terrorism Committee in 2007.
The efforts of Qatar in the fight against terrorism, the drying up of its funding and the treatment of its roots continue, and regional and international coordination is under way.
"In this context, we remind that Qatar is a signatory to the Agreement Establishing the Anti-Terrorist Financing Center in Riyadh, which comprises GCC states and the US," it said.
"In this framework, Qatar participated in the first meeting of the Terrorist Financing Targeting Center in Kuwait, attended by all the GCC members and the US between March 5 and 6, 2018, which was positive, constructive and prevailed by the spirit of cooperation and consensus among GCC countries."
The statement said Qatar remains an active member of the international coalition against the ISIS, and its efforts go beyond confronting terrorist organisations to comprehensively tackle the phenomenon of terrorism.
"This requires the prevention of this phenomenon by empowering young people economically and equipping them with right and balanced knowledge so that they do not fall prey to extremist groups," it added.
Qatar has signed a number of important agreements to combat terrorism and violent extremism with a number of countries, notably the recent agreements and memoranda of understanding signed during the Qatar-US Strategic Dialogue in January 2018.