Alina Polyakova | Tribune News Service
QATAR'S scientists will be part of an important multi-country research project that will aim to devise a sustainable strategy for water, energy and food (WEF) resources by improving synergies between the three vital elements.
The announcement of Qatar's participation in the Belmont Forum-helmed project was made on Thursday by the Center for Environmental and Municipal Studies at the Ministry of Municipalities and Environment. Qatar National Research Fund (QNRF) and Qatar Institute for Environmental and Energy Research at Hamad Bin Khalifa University will join research institutes in Austria, Britain, Germany and the United States in addressing the difficulties in understanding the relationship between food, water and sustainable energy.~
Qatar's vision in deciding to be part of the three-year project sits well with Qatar National Vision 2030 and the National Development Strategy 2017-2022 both of which will have focus on sustainable use of food, water and energy resources in the country.~
For Qatar, the benefits of being part of this research project cannot be overstated given the country's desert climate. In fact, Doha will become a model for the rest of the urban areas in the Arab world which grapple with similar problems. Qatar is the only country from the region that is part of this project.
Qatar's participation in the project comes at a time when it has embarked upon an ambitious programme of self-reliance and sustainability which to some extent has been catalysed by the imposition of a trade and diplomatic blockade by some of its neighbours. While self-reliance should inarguably be the goal every nation must pursue, the challenge lies in achieving the objective in a sustainable way.
Given the relevance of the WEF nexus for the development priorities of Qatar, the research project will be beneficial in terms of assessing the linkages between the three elements via policy, tools and technology experimentation, and devising solutions that aim at increasing productivity while keeping carbon emissions low.
The impact of extreme climatic events, coastal vulnerability, water security and global urbanisation on Qatar is one of the major issues addressed by the Qatar National Research Strategy. Doha itself has been urbanising rapidly and this phase of development will gain further momentum as it builds infrastructure for the 2022 FIFA World Cup. According to QNRF, a member of Belmont Forum, global urbanisation results in increasing regional and global stress on WEF systems. It emphasises that these issues require a global approach and hence it is important that Qatar's scientific community is part of international initiatives in the field.
Qatar is conscious of the fact that the challenges are immense especially because of the global nature of WEF resource-flow connections and impacts. An international collaborative approach can therefore go a long way in meeting the challenges.
While QNRF is supporting all the priority themes of the Belmont Forum project, it is rightly recommending that Qatar-based research teams mostly focus their contributions on the Water Energy part of the nexus as this represents the main issue for the development of Gulf societies. This would also be in alignment with the Qatar National Research Strategy.
Global research on WEF so far has come up short with unequal emphasis on all the three elements despite the deep interlinkages between them. The nexus approach, it is hoped, will more specifically consider the different dimensions of water, energy and food equally in order to devise solutions in the broader framework of sustainable development. The research outcomes will no doubt help Qatar in its quest to realise the goal of self-reliance and sustainability in a more focused and purposeful manner.