dpa
Miami
Experienced fourth seed Elina Svitolina ended the career-changing eight-match win streak of Japan's Naomi Osaka on Friday in the Miami Masters second round, 6-4, 6-2.
Osaka ran out of puff after a half a month of top tennis on North American hardcourts as she went down in one hour, 22 minutes with four dropped serves.
Osaka has risen into the elite title challengers on the women's side after her remarkable run to the Indian Wells trophy at the weekend, during which she beat number five Karolina Pliskova and surprised number one Simona Halep.
Now ranked 22nd, she began in Miami by putting out icon Serena Williams in the first round before being stopped by Svitolina who now leads their series 3-2.~
Svitolina showed her intentions early as she broke for 2-1, only to lose it a game later. But the Ukrainian went back up 3-2 on an Osaka backhand error and won the opener on a service winner.
Svitolina raced off to 4-0 in the second as the fire drifted from Osaka, and the Miami third round a fourth time on third match point.~
Australian Ash Barty meanwhile beat American Claire Liu 6-0, 7-6 (7-0) in other early action.
In the men's second round, Belgian seventh seed David Goffin lost in his comeback after a month away following being hit in the eye by a tennis ball, going down to Joao Sousa of Portugal 6-1, 6-0 in just over an hour.
Filip Krajinovic of Serbia advanced over Briton Liam Broady, 6-3, 6-2, and Argentine Diego Schwartmann defeated Nicolas Jarry 6-3, 6-1.
Kuhn gets early taste of tour victory in Miami
Nicola Kuhn became the youngest Spaniard to win an ATP World Tour match since Rafa Nadal after the 18-year-old's 7-6(4) 6-4 victory over Darian King.
Kuhn, who turned 18 on Tuesday and is ranked 211th in the world, became the youngest Spanish winner since 16-times grand slam champion Nadal did it aged 17 in 2004, according to the ATP Tour's website.
Kuhn, who was born in Austria before his parents moved to Spain when he was a baby, said it was a"special day".
"It was a very tough match. I'm happy with today's victory, but now I need to focus on my next match. People here have a lot more experience than I have. I have to play matches, learn - and ultimately seize opportunities and give my all."