He noted that Qatar produced 650,000 barrels of oil in 1995 and that"oil prices put Qatar in a difficult financial situation, but the Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani decided to invest in gas at a time when no one believed in the power of gas".
Qatar was now one of the largest exporters of natural gas, he noted.
"We have developed technology for this industry and that put us together with the world's leading LNG players in terms of production and shipping," Sheikh Mohammed added.
"We have worked on diversification as part of our economic vision, where the surplus of our budget and revenues were invested in different sectors and in different countries, and then the Qatar sovereign fund was established."
"We believe in international cooperation and the development plan is an essential part of our policy. We believe in the need to focus on human capital, and that is why we have allocated 50 percent of our external development assistance to education," he added.
"We set a vision a few years ago to educate 10 million children in vulnerable countries and so far more than 7 million children are being educated through Qatari programmes," the FM noted.
Sheikh Mohammed said Qatar has a partnership with France and other countries and the Qatari programmes in Africa are working with the help of a French development company.
"We believe in the empowerment of young people as part of our national agenda, where we have made initiatives to create jobs," he said, adding that"we have the Silatech Foundation, which was established to create jobs for Arab youth in Yemen, Morocco and other countries in the region".
In this regard, he referred to the provision of more than 300,000 jobs so far as well as the provision of 50,000 jobs for young people through the Qatar Friendship Fund (QFF) in Tunisia."Our foreign policy is based on these basic principles and we are using this as a key tool to achieve this vision," Sheikh Mohammed said.
He said the region has a lot of resources and high potential."We have many young people and we consider them fuel for prosperity, but we need to give them the right means to achieve this vision," he said.
Sheikh Mohammed described Qatar's relations with France as"historic and with its characteristics." He said France stood with Qatar in the early days of the Gulf crisis.