CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
HAMAD Medical Corporation (HMC) Dietetics and Nutrition Department staff educated patients and visitors on simple steps to take to reduce salt consumption during the week-long activities of World Salt Awareness Week from March 12 to 18.
The activities were an initiative of the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH).
The officials educated visitors and patients about the best ways and practices to reduce salt intake and five ways to reduce to five grams of salt a day.
In addition, the HMC staff demonstrated some food samples that contained high salt and hidden amounts of salt and how to read the nutrition labels.
Speaking to media persons, HMC Director of Dietetics and Nutrition Department Reem al Saadi said,"All these projects are considered as part of the implementation of the Qatar Dietary Guidelines. For example, corporate dietetics and catering departments worked with the MoPH for the preparation and implementation of Dietary Guidelines and traffic light system for vending machines and cafeterias of HMC hospitals for more healthy food choices."
She said that this campaign came about because of a strong association between salt consumption and some diseases like hypertension, heart and vascular diseases as well as kidney diseases.
During the campaign, the officials distributed the required education materials, posters and rollups and communicated with the operating companies to change their contracts and classify their products based on the new regulations to promote the green colour products.
"In addition, there is a close monitoring to ensure the companies compliance. Moreover, we are working with them to include more main dishes under this system and not be restricted to fast food and drinks only," she said.
The five ways to reduce salt to five grams a day are draining and rinsing canned vegetables and eating more fresh fruits and vegetables; checking the food labels before buying to help choose less salty options; gradually adding less salt to your food for the taste buds will adapt; using herbs, garlic and citrus in place of salt; removing the salt and salty condiments from the table so that the younger generation will not develop the habit of adding salt.