By Ashraf Siddiqui
THE bilateral relations between Qatar and Greece continue to prosper and take giant strides, HE Constantinos Orphanides, Ambassador of Greece to Qatar has said.
The ambassador was addressing an elite gathering on the occasion of 197th anniversary celebrations of his country's proclamation of independence. Minister of Culture and Sports HE Salah bin Ghanem al Ali along with other top Qatari officials, diplomats, community members and guests, were present on the occasion.
The ambassador said modern Greece has built ties with the Middle East region and its people through trade and cultural exchanges based on mutual respect and cooperation, stressing that in 2007, during the rule of Father Emir HH Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani, both countries established diplomatic relations at ambassadors' level, and since then ties have flourished in various fields.
He said that last year, there have been several visits of Greek ministers to Qatar including Minister of National Defence and delegation of defence industry officials, adding that during the recent DIMDEX 2018 event, the Greek National Defence Minister had lauded the remarkable arrangements made by Qatar.
The ambassador noted that a significant number of Greek companies have earned their confidence owing to its reliability, high standards, know-how and expertise demonstrated in a number of projects successfully completed in Qatar.
He pointed out that Greece's economy has been showing a positive growth in last two years,and expecting a GDP growth of 2.3% in 2018."We are witnessing Qatari investors interested in areas like energy, tourism, hospitality, clean energy and shipping. A number of prominent Qataris are investing in real estate. And we welcome more Qatari investors in Greece. Our government is keen to encourage them and facilitate their work," he said.
"We are also proud that Qataris are making Greece their holiday destination. In addition to the present three daily flights to Athens, from May onwards, Qatar Airways is likely to start one more direct route to Greece from Doha to Mykonos Island,"he added.
Moreover, the Greek ambassador appreciated the role of Greek nationals in Qatar. He noted that 2,500 Greek nationals are playing a significant role in the growth of Qatar. The ambassador also paid his sincere thanks to the wise leadership of Qatar for giving his country's expatriates the opportunity to work in Qatar and pursue a prosperous life for themselves and their families.