Satyendra Pathak
Doha
In a move that will cheer hundreds of thousands of migrant workers in Qatar, the Qatar Central Bank (QCB) is developing a remittance mobile application (app) to make it easier for them to transfer money back to their home countries.
This was revealed by Nepal's Ambassador to Qatar HE Ramesh Prasad Koirala, who said he came to know about the move during his recent meeting with QCB Governor Sheikh Abdulla bin Saoud al Thani.
The envoy said the mobile app is expected to be launched soon.
During the meeting, Koirala said, the QCB governor assured that the fee for remittance through the app would be lowered for the benefit of migrant workers.
"The remittance fee through the upcoming app is expected to be QR5 per transaction which is quite lower than the prevailing QR10 per transaction," the envoy said.
The mobile app will enable migrant workers from Nepal and other Asian countries like India, Bangladesh and Pakistan to remit money in a simpler, faster, cheaper and safer way, he added.
The QCB app is also expected to offer an attractive exchange rate, the envoy said, adding it would also mean that workers don't have to give up their free time to transfer money via the traditional exchange facilities.
The QCB mobile app would also solve the issue of daily limits on remittances put by some exchange houses in Qatar, the envoy said, adding that most of the local banks would be linked with the app.
The envoy said the app would allow workers to view the balance, check bank statements and carry out other activities related to their accounts.
Once the app is launched, Koirala said, the Nepalese embassy in Qatar will coordinate with various local banks to arrange workshops to train workers for using the app.
The envoy said the QCB governor has also assured that the Wage Protection System (WPS) will ensure the migrant workers receive their salaries on time.
The WPS, coupled with the upcoming mobile app, would address almost all the issues related to wage and money transfer of migrant workers, he added.