CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
The National Health Strategy (NHS) 2018-2022 under the theme 'Our Health, Our Future' was launched at the Qatar National Convention Center on Saturday in the presence of Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani and Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for Defense Affairs HE Dr Khalid bin Mohammed al Attiyah.
The five-year strategy was launched at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in Healthcare.
The PM opened the forum's accompanying exhibition"Corner of Knowledge". The PM was briefed on the projects implemented by the state in the health sector for improving healthcare services for the people of Qatar.
In her speech, Minister of Public Health HE Dr Hanan Mohammed al Kuwari said the new health strategy seeks to ensure that the entire population of Qatar enjoys better health by improving the performance of the healthcare system as well as directing the required efforts towards prevention of diseases."Our ambition for the next stage in our journey is to make the entire population of Qatar enjoy better health," she said.
The new strategy will focus on seven population groups such as children, people with special needs, the elderly, women and others, and each has its specific needs.
"We will tackle five areas such as health promotion and protection to further strengthen the way in which the healthcare system operates," she said.
The minister said the strategy identified 19 key performance indicators that will help them keep focused and measure their progress on national and international levels, such as improving the effectiveness of the emergency services by ensuring that those accessing the emergency care are seen and handled within four hours of registration.
"We will also improve the management of chronic illnesses such as diabetes by reducing hospital admissions by 15 percent and by improving specialised services at the primary healthcare level," the minister added.
Efforts will also be made to encourage people to lead healthy lifestyle and reduce unhealthy habits such as smoking.
The minister reviewed the achievements of the first national health strategy, which was six years long and helped make tremendous progress in improving the quality of care provided to patients and helped ensure that cancer patients were screened early and treated more quickly to enhance their chances of surviving the disease.
The National Health Strategy has also led to significant changes in the level of primary care, where it is now possible to provide a better care to families in locations close to their homes and all aspects of healthcare have seen significant improvements over the past six years.
"We have proved that if we set our ambitions higher and invest wisely on our workforce and infrastructure and focus on improving care for our patients, we can achieve world-class standard of care in Qatar," she said.
She added the healthcare sector has achieved a lot since the last Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in Healthcare, including the opening new hospitals at Hamad Khalifa Medical City which are now treating more than 40,000 patients a month.
Qatar's healthcare system was also recently ranked 13th in the world and best in the Middle East.
On her part, PHCC Managing Director Dr Mariam Abdulmalik said,"A key pillar of the National Health Strategy 2018-2022 is the shift from focusing on diseases to enhancing preventative health services. As the first point of contact for most patients in Qatar's health system, primary care has a central role to play in realising this ambition. Through this new strategy, we will intensify our commitment to expanding health and wellness services across Qatar, with a focus on empowering people to make the right decisions for their health."
On his part, Hamad Medical Corporation Chief Medical Officer said,"It is particularly fitting that the launch of the National Health Strategy 2018-2022 takes place at this important healthcare quality event in front of more than 2,500 doctors, nurses, allied health professionals and corporate staff from within Qatar's health sector. It is these very people whose commitment, expertise and passion will deliver the plans within this strategy and help Qatar's health system successfully achieve the next phase of its health transformation."