CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
Qatar's healthcare sector has unveiled a new portal to create access for patients to communicate with their doctors and have up-to-date information about their medical records.
Speaking at a press conference on the sidelines of the opening of the 2018 Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in Healthcare on Saturday, Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC) Managing Director Dr Mariam Abdulmalik said,"The portal will give patients chance to know about their health progress. We believe that all patients should understand their case in order to take their medicines as prescribed."
On her part, Ministry of Public Health Director of E-Health Dr Juliet Ibrahim said that giving patients access to their medical information is important to get them involved in their care.
"From the E-health perspective, we want to make sure that people have access to their medical information and data across the sector so that they can follow their progress and know what is happening with their health," she said.
She said the new strategy will help move patients and the public from passive recipients of care to becoming empowered and active partner in their healthcare delivery, working with providers in decision making and developing plans.
Speaking on the sidelines of the forum, Cerner Qatar General Manager Adrian Dey said the Cerner systems are deployed in Hamad Medical Corporation, PHCC and Sidra Medicine as the basis of medical records and technology systems within the facilities.
"The patient portal launched today is a great step forward to empower the people of Qatar to take a very involved and integrated approach in managing their own health," he said.
Dey added that the portal will allow patients to have access to their medical records such as the appointments scheduled, the medicines they are taking, medicines prescribed, recent interaction with the facility and outcomes of visits.
According to him, the patients will also have chance to inform healthcare providers about their allergies."The patient may share this information when they go to see a private clinician. It enables them to be more involved and have more information for better health outcomes," said Dey.
Dey said the portal is linked to Qatar ID and requires one to register to have access to all of the defined areas of one's medical record within the public healthcare system.