Tribune News Network
Doha
TNG Youth Leadership programme kicked off with the 46th TNG Gavel Club Contest in the Humorous Speech and Evaluation categories on the Al Wakrah campus.
TNG management, parents, senior toastmasters and students were present to encourage the participants. G4S Divisional Head Timur Shah was the chief guest at the event.
The event unfolded with chief judge and Senior Toastmaster Syed Abid Hussaini speaking to the audience about the efforts of the Gaveliers and the rigorous training conducted in Toastmasters sessions to help them prepare for this day.
Master of Ceremonies Fatima Zahra welcomed the audience, while Contest Chair Rabia Kaleem explained the rules and regulations of the contest.
Target Speaker Bashar Khan set the ball rolling with his speech 'Smart phones and stupidity concept'. The interesting topic won the attention of the audience and evaluators judging the speaker on parameters of voice modulation, hand gestures, confidence, eye contact and movement on stage. Based on the observation of the target speech, the evaluators then commented upon the areas of improvement.
The first session of the contest ended with certificates and trophy awarded to the winners. The first position was secured by Gavelier Asma Umar, second position, third position and fourth position certificates were awarded to Gaveliers Ramaisa Khadijah, Abeer Zubair and Mohammad Saym, respectively.
The second session of the contest, Humourous Speech, began with contestants speaking about real life experiences, trials, tribulations and opinions with a hint of humour to entertain and engage the audience. The Gaveliers demonstrated leadership skills through confidence, presentation style and communication skills. The Gaveliers were evaluated based on their flair for humour and presentation style.
The first position was secured by Abeer Zubair followed by Ramaisa Khadijah and Mohammed Saym securing second and third position respectively.
The first winners of both sessions will be presented with shields at the Grand Youth Leadership event to be held on March 31, at Qatar National Convention Centre.
Chief Guest Timur Shah was presented with a shield as a token of thanks for attending and encouraging the students. Shah motivated speakers applauding their efforts and speech delivery. He encouraged the Gavaliers to practise till they become effective communicators in real life. TNG Director Riyaz Ahmed Bakali emphasised on the vision of the school to prepare students to become leaders of tomorrow."TNG Youth Leadership Programme provides a platform to students to demonstrate their inter-personal and leadership skills through various school activities.