Tribune News Network
Doha
Doha Bank has announced the launch of its 2018 Al Dana scheme.
The scheme has created 61 millionaires to date, giving away over 40kg of gold and QR133 million in cash to more than 3,200 citizens and expatriates.
The latest edition of the Al Dana scheme offers an array of outstanding prizes, creating an additional incentive for customers to save in order to multiply their chances of winning.
The 2018 schedule boasts over 631 cash prizes, representing the biggest prize pool in Qatar. This includes a newly introduced mega prize of QR2 million. Customers can also participate in the QR1 million dedicated draw for Al Riyada and private banking, quarterly millionaire draws and monthly prize draws of QR100,000.
Dedicated prizes for new to bank salary transfer customers, ladies and senior citizens will be announced every month, along with a guaranteed winner from each Doha Bank branch every quarter.
Besides, 40 monthly winners will receive QR2,000 each and two quarterly winners can take home KWD 1,000.
"We are thrilled to welcome the Al Dana Scheme back for its 15th edition. This year more than ever, we will help to make our customers' dreams come true through our popular scheme, which continues to generate tremendous interest among all segments of the population," said Dr R Seetharaman, CEO of Doha Bank.
"Saving in 2018 is set to pay off for Al Dana & Salary transfer customers, who can avail the chance of gaining welcome bonuses when joining the scheme as well as doubling or tripling their chances of winning when depositing additional funds.
"All of us at Doha Bank wish our customers the best of luck in these exciting prize draws and we are looking forward to creating more millionaires."
Al Dana Young Savers Account, Doha Bank's special account for children under the age of 18, is offering a chance to win a scholarship every month worth QR5,000. To be eligible for the prize draw, customers should open the account with a minimum deposit of QR5,000 and maintain an average balance of QR5,000 each month.
Every additional QR5,000 saved doubles their chances to win, encouraging young adults to develop healthy saving habits from an early age.
The Al Dana account offers customers an extensive array of banking benefits, including immediate pre-approved loans of up to 90 percent of their initial deposits, a free international debit card, and online, SMS and mobile banking services.
In addition, customers can enjoy the convenience of managing their utility bill payments through their Al Dana accounts, transferring funds across multiple accounts and to third parties, and sending money overseas at the most competitive exchange rates.
Customers can open an Al Dana account by visiting their nearest Doha Bank branch, completing the online application form, or by sending an SMS to 92610 with the keyword"DANA".