Santhosh Chandran
Doha
THE Ministry of Transport and Communications' (MoTC) initiative to provide additional berth for private boats at different harbours across Qatar has given a boost to the boat manufacturing sector in the country, feel industry experts.
The move has already started creating employment opportunities and made the boat manufacturing sector more vibrant in the last few months, the experts told Qatar Tribune.
It is noteworthy that the MoTC launched the initiative to provide an additional 1,000 berths for private boats at harbours in association with the Fisheries Department of the Ministry of Municipality and Environment (MME).
According to the project, over 1,000 berths for private boats will be constructed at Al Ruwais, Al Khor, Al Zakhira and Al Wakra harbours.
An official of a boat manufacturing firm at Al Wakra said,"The announcement has given a boost to the boat manufacturing industry in Qatar. At present, Al Wakra harbour manufactures two to three boats every month while prior to the announcement, the company produced one or two boats in three months."
According to Rajiv Ponnan, head of interior works at another boat manufacturing company, the unjust siege imposed on Qatar by its neighbouring countries has not impacted boat manufacturing sector in the country.
"Even though, the blockade did slowdown the sector initially because of sudden stoppage of supply of materials by siege countries, the situation became normal very soon with supply from India and Oman,"Ponnan said.
"People's love for sea coupled with the government's support to boat manufacturing sector and water transportation is attracting individuals and tour operators to explore the potential of the sector. We are getting a lot of queries to manufacture boats," he added.
The construction of additional berths will offer a solution for the growing number of private boats and promote water transportation.
The berthing facilities will be equipped with the latest and appropriate facilities of global standards and specifications to protect the boats from risks in cases of storms and also serve the national economy, helping it to achieve the goals of the Qatar National Vision 2030.