Ayeni Olusegun
Doha
Syria's Zahir al Midani scored a 72nd minute equaliser to ensure a draw against Qatar in a tri-nation friendly competition at the Basra Sport City Stadium in Iraq on Saturday. Qatar needed a win to be winners of the series but will have to wait for the outcome of the match between Syria and host Iraq.
Omar al Somah put Syria ahead at the start of the second half before Abdulaziz Hatem and Akram Afif gave Qatar a 2-1 lead.
Qatar and Syria had met twice in the 2018 FIFA World Cup qualifying round in which the Maroons won one and lost the other. Syria however, qualified for the playoff round where they lost to Australia.
The Iraq friendly in Basra was organised after FIFA lifted the ban on international matches in the city due to security concerns and the Qatar Football Association played a major role in the ban lifting.
The match was a fast-paced encounter as both team tried to dominate the flanks and midfield. Almoez Ali should have put Al Annabi ahead in the 17th minute but the Al Duhail striker headed well wide in the six-yard box from Pedro Miguel's cross.
The Syrians not to be outdone by their fancied opponents, tested Mohammed al Bakri from long range. The young goalie was able to parry out Firas al Khatib's strike from 20 yards out.
Almoez was a culprit of another opportunity, heading wide from the same spot after beating his marker to create space in the middle.
Al Sadd forwards Akram Afif and captain Hassan al Haydos looked lively down the wings but Al Annabi continued to suffer in the final third.
Syria took the lead just three minutes into the second half through Omar al Somah. Mohammed al Aaeldin's poor back pass was latched on to Somah who rounded the goalkeeper to finish from an acute angle. The Syrians continued to ask questions of Qatar's defence but Hatem settled things with the equaliser 10 minutes later. Abdelkarim Hassan made one of his trademark run down the left before releasing the Al Gharafa man whose shot rifled into the top-corner of Ibrahim Alma's post.
Al Annabi controlled the game afterwards and were rewarded in the 72nd minute from Akram Afif's crisp finish. Abdelkarim again sent the young striker on his way whose deft strike caught the goalie by surprise.
However Zahir al Midani equalised for the Syrians seconds after kick-off. Substitute Karim Boudiaf lost his marker in the box and Midani showed composure to slot home.
Syria will take on Iraq on Tuesday in the last match of the series.