Tribune News Network
Doha
Qatar Petroleum (QP) has signed a set of Guiding Principles on reducing methane emissions across the natural gas value chain stretching from production to the final consumer, the company announced in a press statement on Saturday.
Qatar Petroleum President and CEO Saad Sherida al Kaabi, signed the Guiding Principles document in Doha, which was attended by Royal Dutch Shell CEO Ben van Beurden, whose company is a signatory to the principles.
Reaffirming Qatar Petroleum's continued commitment to reducing methane gas emissions, Kaabi said,"This was part of our wider environmental responsibility enshrined in our corporate values and operational standards."
He added,"As the world's leading liquefied natural gas producer, we have always held on to the highest of environmental standards and practices, including building the Jetty Boil-Off Gas Recovery Project, one of the largest environmental investments in the world and the biggest of its kind.
"By signing the Guiding Principles on reducing methane emissions across the natural gas value chain, we are sending a stronger message of our continued commitment to be a responsible environmental steward by running our operations safely while minimising environmental impacts.
"We take this responsibility seriously and we are pleased to join our international industry peers in adopting the guiding principles to help achieve global climate goals."
With this signing, Qatar Petroleum becomes the first Middle East national oil company to join the wider efforts by the global energy industry to ensure that natural gas continues to play a critical role in helping meet future energy demand while addressing climate change.
Since natural gas consists mainly of methane, a potent greenhouse gas, its role in the transition to a low-carbon future will be influenced by the extent to which methane emissions are reduced.
Mark Radka, Head of the United Nations Environment Programme's Energy and Climate Branch, said,"Numerous studies have shown the importance of quickly reducing methane emissions if we are to meet growing energy demand while achieving climate change and clean air goals.
"We are delighted that Qatar Petroleum has joined this effort as they provide an excellent framework for cutting methane emissions across the entire natural gas value chain and reporting on the reductions achieved."
The Guiding Principles were developed in collaboration with the Columbia University, the Environmental Defence Fund, the International Energy Agency, the International Gas Union, the Oil and Gas Climate Initiative, the Climate Investment Funds, the Rocky Mountain Institute, the Sustainable Gas Institute, the Energy and Resources Institute, the University of Texas at Austin, and UN Environment.
The principles aim to continually reduce methane emissions, advance strong performance across gas value chains, improve accuracy of methane emissions data, advocate sound policies and regulations on methane emissions, and increase transparency.
Current signatories to the Guiding Principles are BP, Eni, ExxonMobil, Gazprom, Repsol, Shell, Statoil, Total and Wintershall.