Asif Iqbal
Doha
In a bid to further strengthen business ties between Qatar and India, a first-of-its-kind, Qatar India Business Investment Conference (QIBIC) will be held in Doha next month, a top official of the organising committee has said.
"The two-day conference will be attended by India's Minister of State (MoS) for External Affairs MJ Akbar and will also see the attendance of top executives from leading business institutions convening in Doha on April 16 and 17," President of Indian Business and Professionals Council (IBPC) KM Varghese told Qatar Tribune.
Varghese said the conference would offer a platform to explore and identify new business opportunities between the two countries.
"What makes the conference unique is the attendance of policy makers and top business executives from the two countries to speak to each other at the event," he added.
According to Varghese, many businessmen from India have visited Qatar to take part in exhibitions, but this conference will take the interaction between the two countries to a new level. Besides panel discussions, a select audience will be invited to attend the event.
About the sectors being targeted for the conference, Varghese said,"The sessions at the QIBIC conference will focus on topics such as private sector opportunities in hospitality and tourism, industrial sector, infrastructure, investment and finances, the service sector, and the tech sector."
He said the SME and entrepreneurship landscape in India and Qatar would be explored, and there will be sessions focusing on agriculture trends, strategies, and long-term plans.
The IBPC President said that with private sector in Qatar developing and evolving rapidly, the forum will help assess investment opportunities in the Qatari and Indian markets.
He said the conference would examine in detail the business ecosystem in India and Qatar and recommend measures for enhancing coordination between the two countries to achieve more effective results in the future.
Varghese said,"India will also gain from the conference as Qatar has a big sovereign wealth fund. Indian businessmen can use the opportunity to attract investment from Qatar."
On the contribution of Indian business houses in Qatar, Varghese said the Qatar government has always welcomed Indian businesses, professionals and workers with open arms over the years, helping develop a deep bond between the two countries. He said several Indian firms have been playing an important role in developing the infrastructure of the country.
CEO of Reach (the event management firm for the conference) Wahab Bou Hamdan said he was confident that the conference would be a big success and would evolve into an annual platform to stimulate economic cooperation between the two countries.