Tribune News Network
Doha
Retaj Hotels and Hospitality and the Thai Group Taj Hana signed a strategic partnership agreement in Thailand's capital Bangkok recently.
Dr Mohamed bin Johar al Mohamed, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Retaj Group and Luqman Nani, Managing Director of Taj Hana Group, signed the agreement.
Speaking on the occasion, Qatar's Ambassador to Thailand HE Sheikh Jassim bin Abdulrahman al Thani said Qatar is keen to diversify investments and sources of income both at home and abroad as per the National Vision 2030 laid down by the Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani.
He said the Thai private sector is welcome in Qatar to obtain and avail of economic benefits provided by the state to investors.
This agreement is part of Retaj Hotel's overseas expansion plan. It is one of the leading hotels and hospitality companies in the Middle East and GCC region. Taj Hana will provide more than 27 hotels for Retaj Hotels to operate over the next five years in key locations in the Far East region, the most important of which are Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia and China.
Retaj aims to provide halal and authentic Arabian hospitality to the Arabian and Gulf tourists and investors as well as people of other nationalities visiting the Far East countries.
The two groups also signed an agreement as part of which Retaj Hotels and Hospitality will offer Taj Hana SPA brand in all Retaj new hotels, allowing Retaj guests to enjoy the international SPA experience and renowned Thai treatments of the Taj Hana.
Sheikh Jassim wished the two sides success in their cooperation and said that bilateral relations between Qatar and Thailand have developed remarkably during the past few years.
He called on the Qatari private sector to benefit from the advantages offered by Thailand to investors.
Sheikh Jassim further said that the Qatari embassy, which is also accredited in neighbouring Laos, is ready to solve difficulties faced by Qatari investors and urged them to invest in East Asian countries.
Dr Mohamed bin Johar al Mohamed, Vice Chairman and Managing Director of Retaj Group, said the group aims to support Qatar's goals for a strong global presence and the diversification of its foreign investment.
Luqman Nani, Managing Director of Taj Hana Group, said the tourism industry is a top priority of the Thai government and added that medical tourism has gained popularity in Thailand, gaining a global reputation.
He said the Taj Group started as a health and treatment center combining traditional medicine with authentic Thai treatment which is being offered by the group in Phuket Island, where they planned to expand locally and internationally in the future.
Luqman said that the partnership includes provision of 2,000 hotel rooms to be managed by Retaj Hotels and Hospitality in Thailand, in addition to 3,000 hotel rooms in East Asia, including China, Japan and South Korea, to provide halal tourism.