Tribune News Network
DOHA
Ali Ahmed al Kuwari, Group CEO of QNB, underscored the bank's dedication to developing human capital, at a lecture at Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar (CMU-Q) recently.
QNB, which was the first Qatari-owned bank when it was founded in 1964, is now the top bank in the Middle East and Africa, according to financial metrics.
As QNB continues to strengthen its business in Qatar and grow internationally, the bank has prioritised the development of skilled finance professionals in Qatar.
"We are committed to developing human capital as well as financial capital in Qatar. Fifty-four percent of QNB employees are Qataris, and 56 percent have been with the bank for more than five years," said Kuwari.
"By hiring and training a diverse group of highly engaged employees, we are helping develop future generations of Qatar's financial leaders, who will continue the important work that QNB has been doing since its founding."
QNB offers scholarships to nearly 50 local university students, including students from Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar.
Michael Trick, dean of Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar, emphasised the many benefits of corporate and educational institutions working hand-in-hand."Our approach at Carnegie Mellon is to give our students real-world problem sets, so they are learning both the theory and practical applications. Organisations like QNB provide an excellent training ground for students to exercise their skills and apply their knowledge."
QNB's efforts in Qatar include financing projects related to Fifa World Cup 2022, initiating projects focused on long-term economic self-sufficiency, providing specific lending programmes for small and medium enterprises and offering local corporations supply chain and account management help.
Kuwari's lecture was part of the CMU-Q 'Dean's Lecture Series', a forum for leaders in business, government and technology to discuss topical issues.
Carnegie Mellon Qatar offers degree programs in biological sciences, business administration, computational biology, computer science and information systems.