Tribune News Network
Doha
A large number of leading businesses and public sector organisations attended Vodafone Qatar's 'Innovation Day 2018' recently.
The prestigious corporate event invited customers and partners to explore some of the latest and most exciting innovations that Vodafone is developing.
By continuously monitoring local market trends and the demands of local businesses, Vodafone has been the first to champion fair billing with the Bill Manager, the first to bring worry-free roaming with the Global Data and the first to offer businesses an opportunity to promote their services to their callers with Business Ring-Back Tones.
Vodafone Qatar set the stage for the technologies of the future at the event by showcasing innovations for a range of industries and sectors, from security solutions, solar monitoring, smart metering, smart cooling, air quality monitoring and smart agriculture to remote healthcare monitoring, and virtual & augmented education.
Besides product demos, interactive displays and technical presentations by Vodafone Qatar experts and guests were treated to two thought-provoking talks by leading figures from the world of digital technology.
Erik Qualman, a best-selling author and motivational speaker, shared unique insights on topics ranging from digital readership, digital reputation and ratings to disruptive innovation.
Spencer Kelly, a respected technology presenter and computer scientist, introduced the audience to Blockchain technology that's behind crypto currencies.
Addressing the audience, Vodafone Qatar's CEO, Sheikh Hamad bin Abdullah al Thani said,"We live in exciting times and the next decade is set to transform the way businesses and governments operate.
"At Vodafone Qatar, we understand that digital transformation holds the key to the success of much of Qatar's ambitious vision for the future. And we're committed to harnessing the power of technology to enable organisations of all shapes and sizes to optimise, automate and innovate."