Ashok K Singh | Tribune News Network
THE 21th Century has shifted the conventional paradigm of power and influence. In this age, jostling for carving out power and buying influence are done more through narratives of power than machine.
Qatar has won the war of narratives over the countries, which imposed the land and air blockade last year. It all began simultaneously on two fronts. Firstly, they launched an ugly information war by hacking Qatar News Agency, Qatar's official media platform in May. Secondly, they began the blockade in June.
It was an unannounced assault launched with an intention of unsettling Qatar. They mistakenly assumed that the information ambush would create panic, which would prepare the ground for brining on hard power to force Qatar to submit to their will. Qatar was unsettled briefly but not by their force and sophistication. The scale of their devilish intentions unsettled it temporarily.
No sooner than the scope and scale of their mischievous intent sank in, Qatar was up and running on its feet. It was then the neighbouring countries brought in hard power. In the first week of June they began land and air blockade of Qatar.
Again they assumed Qatar would cave in and concede their outrageous demands. Jolted by sudden onslaught, Qatar took some time to fully meet the situations created by the blockade, especially on the economic front affecting daily lives of citizens and residents. But only for some time. Things fell in place gradually and the situation was back to normal.
Since then the blockading countries have intensified disinformation campaign against Qatar. They have opened many fronts. They have misused social media, disseminated fake news and used all resources and influence they could muster to discredit Qatar at international fora.
As a part of their strategy to spread disinformation and make political and diplomatic capital out of it, the blockading countries have used traditional media, social media platforms and international political and diplomatic channels.
For instance, they have used global law and public relation firms to spread disinformation about Qatar. The disinformation has then been used by diplomatic channels to influence policy makers in Western capitals on both sides of the Atlantic.
Has their campaign made any difference? Yes, to the extent that Qatar has had to deploy its political, diplomatic and other legitimate channels to fight the disinformation war. With its indefatigable and concerted efforts and sheer will, Qatar has negated the impact of continuous disinformation war.
Not only Qatar's efforts have negated and defeated the disinformation campaign but it has also succeeded in influencing decision makers in the Western capitals and elsewhere to see the issues in correct perspectives and positive light. Above all, Qatar has succeeded in positively influencing the public opinion in the region, including in the countries that have imposed siege, and in places where it matters the most. Various UN and international organisations have understood and appreciated Qatar's stand.
One of the key instruments that Qatar has used in successfully countering the disinformation campaign is the battle for winning the hearts and minds of the people. Qatar has forced the blockading countries to go on the back foot through persistent diplomatic and other efforts such as untiringly raising the issues of human rights violations by the blockading countries.
Qatar's Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister HE Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman al Thani recently aptly summed up the objectives of Qatar vis-a-vis the blockading countries.
In response to a statement made by the quartet that issues relating to Qatar is"very, very small", the foreign minister had said,"Saudi Arabia is concerned about the issue of Qatar and they term it as a very small issue. Firstly, the countries are not measured by their size. We may be a small country but we have great hearts and minds that care about citizens and residents. But their hearts and minds are small and narrow and they seek to promote instability in the region."
The key phrase used by the foreign minister is"hearts and minds." He said that Qatar has"great hearts and minds" and it has conclusively won the battle for the hearts and minds.
Qatar has indeed used the battle for hearts and minds as a strategy to win the war over the siege that has gone on for over nine months. By deploying its legitimate resources and means, by countering disinformation campaign through measured diplomatic and other possible means, Qatar has presented an example to the world.
It's a lesson on how to conduct diplomacy, how to counter disinformation campaign and how to contain and manage the deleterious impact of social media platforms that have emerged as new beast of modern age.