Tribune News Network
AS the global community marks World Tuberculosis Day today (March 24), Qatar has reiterated its commitment to eradicating the disease.
Backed by the laudable efforts of the Ministry of Public Health (MoPH), Qatar has set a sterling example and shown the way in mobilising global efforts to eradicate tuberculosis, as well as in its steadfast commitment to accelerate progress in this area.
The MoPH, in collaboration with Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) and the Primary Health Care Foundation (PHCC), marks the day this year under the slogan 'We need leaders for a world free of tuberculosis'. This slogan has been adopted by the World Health Organisation (WHO) to raise awareness of the devastating health, social and economic consequences of the disease.
Of late, tuberculosis has been rearing its ugly head again across various corners of the world and is rapidly emerging as a major global threat. More worrisome is the fact that it's becoming increasingly resistant to antibiotics, according to a report released by Doctors Without Borders (M`decins Sans Fronti'e8res).
What makes the challenge for the global community more daunting is that over 2 billion people this translates to roughly one third of the world's population are infected with the bacteria that can lead to TB. And to make matters worse, as the latest statistics reveal, a new person is infected with the bacteria every second, and between 5 percent and 10 percent of people infected with the bacteria will become sick with TB or other infectious diseases during their lifetime.
It is against this backdrop that the efforts of the global community are to be viewed from the prism of urgent and concerted action.
For Qatar, the goal is very well defined: Officials at the MoPH have made clear that the elimination of TB is a priority for the country's public health strategy.
Qatar's strategy is in line with the UN's sustainable development goals, which aims to eradicate tuberculosis by 2030.
Qatar's robust healthcare system and policies have helped maintain very low rates of tuberculosis in the country. What works to Qatar's advantage is the strength of the country's health services, which include, among other measures, the medical check-up of all applicants for residency, and the provision of medicines, lab tests and all types of radiographic imaging which are carried out free of charge for patients.
Also, the anti-TB drugs are provided under medical supervision in all cases in Qatar.
The other key measures that have helped Qatar in successfully warding off the disease include a focus on raising awareness of prevention methods.
The civil society has been working in tandem with the private and public sectors towards this objective, which has further stimulated the collective efforts.
Coming back to the global community, the World Tuberculosis Day provides an opportunity for some serious stocktaking so as to figure out where exactly they stand in the fight against this decease, which is classified as a pandemic in many countries and is responsible for the deaths of about 1.5 million people every year, most of them in developing countries.
No wonder then that the Doctors Without Borders has stressed on a collaborative approach to fight the TB crisis, which, they point out, is everybody's problem and requires international cooperation.