QNA
Khartoum
SUDAN'S Minister of Tourism, Antiquities and Wildlife Dr Mohammed Mustafa Abu Zaid underlined that expanding the areas of fruitful cooperation and strategic partnerships between Sudan and Qatar contributed to the recovery of the tourism sector throughout Sudan and to increasing the number of foreign tourists, especially from Europe.
The Sudanese minister praised the Qatar-Sudan Archaeological Project (QSAP) for its role in promoting the tourism sector in the country.
QSAP is a large-scale programme that aims to investigate, preserve and promote Sudan's remarkable heritage and history. It represents a bold and transformative approach to heritage resource management for Sudanese Nubia designed to consolidate and preserve ancient sites by supporting archaeological surveys of unexplored landscapes and the excavation and conservation of these sites. The programme acts as a catalyst that brings together fragmented expertise in the heritage sector in Sudan into a cohesive and sustained effort for the benefit of the c ountry's history.
The minister said that the project prompted the Ministry of Tourism, Antiquities and Wildlife to strengthen its plans to make the most of Qatar's expertise and experiences for the development of the tourism sector in his country.
He described his visit to Doha last week as"successful and fruitful", and said that the visit opened new horizons for strengthening the bilateral relations.
The minister noted that the visit included meetings for the joint committee in charge for following-up the QSAP. The meetings resulted in high-level understandings that reflected the commitment of the Qatari side to continue the project as planned and to expand its scope to include other areas, as well as the Qatar's approval for the rehabilitation of the National Museum of Sudan.
The Sudanese minister described the step as a positive development that serves the Sudanese interests in this regard. He highly appreciated Qatar's keenness on developing the tourism sector in Sudan and supporting its expansion despite the current circumstances, noting that the current situation has not affect Doha's projects in Sudan, which reflect its honest commitment to its obligations to Khartoum.
He noted that the next period will also witness more bilateral agreements and understandings in the cultural and archaeological fields, affirming that the relations between the two countries are stable and developing in all fields to serve regional and international stability.
Speaking about Qatar's support to the tourism sector, the Sudanese minister said that the number of foreign tourists visiting archaeological areas in the Nile and Northern States is increasing rapidly. For example, the number of German tourists who have arrived in Sudan in 2017 reached 4,000, compared to 2,000 in 2016. He expected the figure to increase significantly during the current year.
He noted that the QSAP is the largest global project for restoration of monuments, adding that the number of foreign tourists visiting QSAP areas exceeds 500 tourists per day, which reflects the unprecedented progress of the project.
Through QSAP, Qatar Museums will provide funding to 42 missions from 25 institutions and 12 countries involved in the excavation and conservation of heritage sites that date from the prehistoric era until the pre-modern period.
Sudan's minister also said that his ministry will pay attention to projects that promote the tourism industry in the country through the rehabilitation of the private sector along with partnerships and global investments supporting the national economy.
He expected the tourist season this year to see more development with the entry of a number of states in the country's tourism map, especially Darfur states, which began in the practical stages of promoting tourism, after the implementation of the 'Doha Document for Peace in Darfur'.