Ailyn Agonia
Doha
THE situation in the Gulf is an opportunity and platform for the US to reassert their position as a dominant international player, an expert from Georgetown University in Qatar (GU-Q) said at a seminar organised by AlJazeera Centre for Studies held at GU-Q auditorium in Doha recently.
Speaking about the role of the US in resolving the GCC crisis, Rory Miller, Professor of Government at GU-Q, said while other players see the situation as a crisis, for the US it is very much an opportunity to demonstrate a way for all actors both in the region and external.
"It is an opportunity after many years of having lost their way as presenting themselves as dominant and providing stability, security and order in the region. Although it has established in its January meeting in Washington that they value very highly the strategic partnership with Qatar and its strategic partnership with the UAE and Saudi Arabia, it has to find a way to bring these parties together," Miller said.
He added that the US has to find a solution so that it can demonstrate on the global stage, where everyone is watching, that it is for the first time in many years that this is the dominant international actor.
However, Miller underlined that for a mediator to be effective there should be unity within them and with a strategic end view of the region.
Another panellist Steven Wright, Associate Professor of International Relations and Associate Dean for Academic Affairs and Research at Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), mentioned that there is an issue of credibility of trust with the US administration.
"President Trump has taken the role of US in a different dimension. It is taking hands off approach and leaving it to regional actors. I don't think you can see a summit taking place or really achieving a great deal," he said.
Responding to a question on the nature of the current crisis, another panellist Editor-in-Chief of Al Arab Abdullah bin Hamad al Athbah said that the situation is not a do over of what happened in the past (1996), but a continuation of certain ambitions that GCC nations have always had regarding Qatar.
However, he underlined, that the intention today is"much stronger and a lot more dangerous" that will reshape not only the GCC but also the broader Middle East and the region. He mentioned about the new alliances being built in the region and the probability of a new regional map being drawn by parties that will emerge on top of the crisis.
Prior to the seminar, GU-Q Dean Ahmad Dallal welcomed the policy-makers, thinkers and experts at the event.