Tribune News Network
Doha
WEILL Cornell Medicine Qatar's (WCM-Q) Institute for Population Health (IPH) is introducing a new training course titled 'Mastering Emotional Intelligence' as part of its mission to enhance the population's health and build capacity.
The aim is to train healthcare professionals to be emotionally aware and manage the source of their behaviour, reflect on their social awareness and learn how to handle the triggers of their emotions for the benefit of clinical care, health care outcomes, patient satisfaction and team morale. Emotional intelligence (EQ) is made of four core skills: self-awareness, self-management, social awareness and relationship management. EQ is the foundation for a host of critical skills and the strongest predictor of high performance.
The one-day workshop will be delivered by Maha Elnashar and Huda Abdelrahim from the Center for Cultural Competence in Healthcare (CCCHC) a unit of the Institute for Population Health, who are licensed by TalentSmart Inc. one of the world's top providers of EQ training.
Elnashar, director of CCCHC, said:"EQ is one of the essential skills needed to work with and manage cultural diversity. Differences can trigger various emotional reactions like anxiety and fear that can extrude annoyance and apprehension; or they can stimulate curiosity and interest to learn more. Dealing with this mixture of emotional responses requires emotional intelligence. The need for well-developed emotional intelligence training is particularly strong in Qatar because of the country's wide mix of cultures. WCM-Q is also planning to provide the training in Arabic to target all levels of healthcare and educational professionals."
Published research shows that EQ education is needed in the medical sector as it helps enhance interpersonal and social communication skills and achieves a range of benefits including increased job satisfaction, improved performance and better patient-doctor relationships. It ensures people are treated equally and receive high-quality care.
Dr Ravinder Mamtani, senior associate dean for population health, capacity building and student affairs, said the course would be an excellent fit for IPH's mission, and that improving a person's emotional intelligence would allow them to view their feelings critically, objectively and to react positively.