Santhosh Chandran
Doha
AN uninterrupted supply of local vegetables at reasonably low prices has come as a huge relief to wholesale vegetable dealers in Qatar who had signed long term contract for supplying vegetables to retailers, restaurants and hotel chains at fixed prices.
For them it is 'compensation time' as the unjust blockade imposed on Qatar by its neighbours in June last year impacted them briefly. They reportedly incurred losses for supplying vegetables to their clients at contract prices.
This situation arose mainly because prices of some of the vegetables - earlier being imported from the blockading countries - had shot up in the local market owing to its short supply. The siege disrupted the supply chain of vegetables to Qatar, but Qatari farmers rose to the occasion to turn the challenge into an opportunity and worked hard to restore normal supply of vegetables by expanding their farms and growing quality products at home with support from the government.
Manager of a wholesale shop at Central Market, Mathews Abraham, said:"Many of the wholesalers in the market have long term contract with restaurants and hypermarkets. When the prices of some vegetables increased following the blockade, we were forced to dole out the vegetables to our clients at prices, 40 to 60 percent lower than our purchase price."
According to Abraham, the attempts by the authorities to ensure regular supply of most of the vegetables to the local market was however, a huge relief for them, though it could not reflect on their balance sheets because of the rising prices.
The situation, according to the wholesalers, started improving after local farmers took the initiative to expand their farms and grow quality vegetables to meet the country's needs.
Director of a wholesale vegetable and fruits shop, Anil Kumar, said:"Now we are getting local vegetables at 60 to 70 percent cheaper compared to the prices during the signing of the contracts. So, the loss that we suffered in the initial phase of the blockade has been adequately compensated."
The wholesalers assume that the flow of local vegetables will continue for a few more months by when their contract period with local clients will also be over.
"The local supply is expected to increase in the next season leading to further drop in its prices which will benefit our long time clients as well," Kumar added.