Tribune News Network
Doha
UNITED Development Company (UDC), a leading Qatari shareholding company and master developer of The Pearl-Qatar, has wrapped up a shopping campaign it had launched last year, with a raffle draw.
UDC senior representatives attended the draw event along with officials from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce, as well as representatives of shopping and dining outlets at The Pearl.
The draw, which took place amidst a crowd of shoppers and onlookers, is the first of its kind to be organised by UDC, targeting visitors and residents of the island who shopped at any of The Pearl's outlets or dined at one of its restaurants over the past three months. They have been awarded tickets to participate in a raffle draw on luxury cars and bikes after presenting the original purchase invoices at concierge desks located in Porto Arabia, Qanat Quartier and Medina Centrale.
The high participation rate in this campaign is evidence of its success and the support it has given to the island's retail outlets.
This unique marketing campaign comes within the framework of UDC's activities and reflects its commitment as a major developer to working hand in hand with the various island-based outlets to enrich the experience of The Pearl's shoppers and residents.
In the coming period, the island will witness more events aimed at cementing its position as a leading shopping hub and promoting The Pearl-Qatar as a destination for families as well as local and international tourists.
Owners of retail outlets from across The Pearl-Qatar said the campaign has contributed to an increase in the number of shoppers, which reflected positively on their sales. The shop owners thanked UDC for its efforts,adding that they looked forward to working with the company to attract an increasing number of visitors through the periodic organisation of various events on the island.
UDC's latest shopping campaign coincided with the recent Qanat Quartier carnival, which attracted a large crowd of families and children,who participated in the entertainment-oriented event.
Recently, the island was also home to the fifth edition of the Qatar International Boat Show 2018, which brought together more than 70 exhibitors and 15,000 visitors.
These events underscore the attractiveness of the retail sector in The Pearl-Qatar, and the success of UDC in providing support for this vital sector and promoting Qatar as a leading tourist destination, contributing to efforts to diversify the economy in line with Qatar National Vision 2030 goals.