THE Social Development Center, NAMA, an affiliated Center of Qatar Foundation for Social Work, took part in the Sixth Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition (AgriteQ) 2018 organised by the Ministry of Municipality and Environment.
The products of incubated projects, namely those in the categories of food production, perfume and incense, were on display at the exhibition.
The purpose of NAMA Center's participation was to enhance the skills and capabilities of the entrepreneurs working on the incubated projects or benefiting from the Center's entrepreneurial services, and to provide their products with the marketing and promotional support they require. As a result, the projects will maintain continuity and keep up with the quick-paced developments in the business environment.
The exhibition was also attended by specialised local and international companies with areas of expertise ranging from agriculture and irrigation to livestock, fisheries and food security.
Moreover, NAMA Center has been continuously striving to enhance the outputs of the entrepreneurial support programmes through a series of procedures and initiatives, from concept development and training to the formation of independent and resilient entities and businesses that are able to overcome obstacles and ensure continuity.
NAMA Center seeks to ensure the entrepreneurs of incubated projects have easy access to local markets, so they can enhance their knowledge and skills to allow these projects to successfully operate in a competitive environment. This shall allow monitoring, improvement and impact measurement. This approach is in line with strategies set forth by the State of Qatar and supports the efforts to achieve the Qatar National Vision 2030.
Commenting on the participation in the exhibition, Maryam bint Abdullatif al Mannai, acting executive director of NAMA Center, said:"It is our sixth consecutive participation in the AgriteQ, and we have nominated several incubated projects involved in the production of food products, perfumes and incense. Ever since our Center was formed in 1997, it has sought to enhance cooperation with the relevant agencies and authorities of the country." (TNN)