IANS
Kolkata
Chinaman Kuldeep Yadav will be under more pressure to perform this Indian Premier League (IPL) season for Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) after his recent exploits at the international level, feels senior pro and statemate Piyush Chawla.
One of India's wrist-spin assets in limited overs cricket and even Tests going ahead, Kuldeep underlined his potential in South Africa recently by taking the most number of wickets in the ODI series - 17 from six matches.
"He is bowling really well. There will be added pressure on him. Last year there was not much pressure on him as he was still raw, now there will be lot of expectations from him,"Chawla told reporters on the sidelines of 'Game Plan In Your City'event here.
Chawla, who was part of India's 2011 World Cup winning squad, has played a lot of first-class cricket with Kuldeep for Uttar Pradesh.
Time and again, the 23-year-old Kuldeep has thanked Chawla for helping him develop the art of wrist-spin."The kind of bowler he is, he will definitely do well. He has been bowling so well for India and for the state as well,"Chawla, 29, said.
Talking about two-time champions KKR where Chawla has spent a considerable amount of time now, he was asked about Narine's effectiveness having dipped since his bowling action was under scrutiny time and again.
"When I joined KKR, Sunil was taking wickets and our combination worked really well,"Chawla said."The best thing is the way he came back after that (reported suspect action). The effectiveness is the same. It's just that the team has started playing him a bit on the safer side.
"When they play you on the safer side, it becomes a bit tough for the bowlers to pick up wickets. But at the same time, it is an opportunity for us to take wickets as batsmen take chances against us. So me or Kuldeep, we get chance to pick up wickets,"Chawla explained.
Badrinath backs Ashwin
Having lost his place to wrist-spinners Yadav and Yuzvendra Chahal in India's limited overs side, premier off-spinner Ravichandran Ashwin can use the Indian Premier League (IPL) platform and revive his flagging career in white-ball cricket, veteran batsman Subramaniam Badrinath has said.
"I've played a lot of cricket with him. I know him as a person, as a friend. He'll be looking to do something, he will be looking this as a challenge," said former Tamil Nadu skipper Badrinath who handed Ashwin his Ranji Trophy debut during his watch.
Ashwin was roped in by Punjab for Rs 7.60 crore, and will lead the side, which has the likes of Aaron Finch, David Miller, Chris Gayle and Yuvraj Singh.
"I think captaincy will give him that edge, a motivation to do something extra. You never know maybe he can lead Kings XI to a title, with an extraordinary season and his name will start coming up in the limited overs cricket.
"I don't think it would have come at a better time for him. He's at that stage of his career, where he should look beyond his own cricket. Not just performing as a bowler, but what can he do more," Badrinath said.
The last time Ashwin donned the India blue was during the West Indies tour in June last year. He finished with one wicket from three matches with an average of 167.00 in the last year's Champions Trophy."It's a great opportunity and has come at a right time. knowing him, he will look to take this up as a challenge. It's not going to be easy but he will be up for it," he said.