Banana Island Resort Joins International Community to Mark Earth Hour Posted on Comments 
Affirming its commitment to supporting climate change action and raising awareness about energy conservation, Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara, joined the international community to show their commitment to the environment and build eco-consciousness on 24 March 2018. 
To mark the occasion, the resort had setup up cocktail tables near the I Go Banana Sign along with Tiki torches all over the area. In addition, a live performance by Arabic Oud player entertained the guests, while mouth-watering canapés were served. 
This year’s event marked the twelfth anniversary of the Earth Hour movement which started as a one-city event in Sydney in 2007, forcing people to acknowledge the pressing need for climate action. The annual global environmental awareness event was created and formulated by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to emphasise the threat of global warming and the need to reduce carbon emissions. An unprecedented 187 countries and territories participated, with over 3,000 landmarks lending their support to help climate change. 
Thomas Fehlbier Area General Manager for Qatar, said: 
Earth Hour is an opportunity for the international community to put their differences aside and join hands for positive change. The topic of sustainability has been increasingly a strong focus in recent years, highlighting that we all have a responsibility in climate change and the effects it has on the Earth we live in. A small action can benefit this cause such as switching the lights when not in use or decreasing water usage when it is not needed. We believe this is a social responsibility requiring immediate global attention, and we would like to thank all our participating guests and visitors who have joined us in communicating this message.’ 
Banana Island Resort Doha is one of the very few institutions that have an active ‘green’ policy in all areas of their business. The resort also maintains a well-defined Environmental Policy that encourages staff at all levels to ‘Reduce, Reuse & Recycle’ to minimise resource utilisation. 
Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara is the luxury hospitality brand’s first island resort in the Middle East. A paradise sanctuary, it respects local culture by offering an alcohol-free environment, with world-class facilities and limitless activities providing relaxation and adventure, wellness and pure indulgence. 
Banana Island Resort Doha by Anantara feels a world away from bustling Doha but is only a 25-minute journey by luxury ferry from Al Shyoukh Terminal located in the city’s downtown area or a 10-minute helicopter ride directly from the airport with bird’s eye views of the spectacular coastline.