Thousands Gather for the Annual Healthcare Forum in Qatar Posted on The largest conference dedicated to healthcare quality improvement and patient safety in the Arab world officially opened at the Qatar National Convention Centre (QNCC) last week, 23-25 March, with over 2,500 delegates from more than 75 countries. Dr Ron Wyatt The 6 th Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in Healthcare featured more than 60 sessions delivered by over 20 international and 65 locally-based presenters. The programme, developed in collaboration with Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) and the Institute for Healthcare Improvement (IHI), focused on patient-centred care, the internationally recognised concept known as ‘joy at work’, improvement science, patient safety, and leadership and capacity building. Dr Abdullatif Al Khal, Deputy Chief Medical Officer at HMC and Middle East Forum Co-Chair, said the annual conference is recognised locally and across the region as an important learning event for healthcare professionals. Today is all about providing practical knowledge and ideas that can be implemented in the healthcare setting by all kinds of health professionals, promoting education and research and translating it into quality and safety improvement activities, fostering effective innovation, and connecting healthcare leaders and practitioners worldwide.’ Held under the theme ‘Building a Culture of Safety’, the three-day conference features the annual event’s largest programme to date. Dr Ron Wyatt, Chief Quality Officer at HMC and Chair of the Planning Committee for this year’s Forum, said the ultimate aim of the conference is to support healthcare professionals in their pursuit of evidence-based improvement efforts designed to transform their working practices. With both internationally recognised and local experts delivering a topical and thought-provoking agenda, the Forum has become a must-attend event for quality and patient safety-focused professionals. This conference is an ideal platform for leaders and practitioners to connect, develop new networks, and build partnerships to support understanding and drive innovation.’ The ‘Knowledge Zone’, the Forum’s unique exhibition area, also became a key attraction for delegates with over 20 exhibitors, including the Ministry of Public Health, Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC), Sidra Medicine, the World Innovation Summit for Health (WISH), Qatar University, Cerner, Qatar Armed Forces, and the Ministry of Interior, participating. 
For more information about the recently-concluded healthcare forum, visit the HMC website at hamad.qa .