UDC Holds Annual General Assembly at The Pearl Posted on Comments 
United Development Company (UDC), held its Annual Ordinary and Extraordinary General Assembly Meetings recently at the Marsa Malaz Kempinski Hotel at The Pearl-Qatar. The meeting was chaired by UDC Chairman of the Board of Directors, Turki bin Mohammed Al-Khater. 
During the Ordinary General Meeting, all agenda items were discussed and adopted, while an amendment to the company’s Articles of Association was approved during the Extraordinary General Meeting to comply with Corporate Governance and Legal Entities Regulations. 
When discussing the company’s 2017 activities and financial results, Al-Khater said that despite the economic uncertainties that prevailed during the year, the 2017 results were still positive. He said that the foundation for UDC’s financial stability is drawn from the great variety of attractive properties currently available and the exciting new properties under development at The Pearl-Qatar, all set within a ‘safe, secure and self-sufficient community’. 
Al-Khater also highlighted that UDC’s business strategy remains focused on creating opportunities and partnerships, achieving growth, minimising risks and sustaining progress. 
Ibrahim Al-Othman, UDC President and Chief Executive Officer described 2017 as being another productive year for UDC. 
Good financial results were achieved under challenging conditions, the pace of development of The Pearl-Qatar continued to accelerate in a cost effective manner and the ‘customer experience’ of residents, retailers and visitors at The Pearl-Qatar was further enhanced.’ 
Key developments on the island are currently in progress. These developments are designed with the specific intention of further enhancing and diversifying the residential offerings on the island, attracting more investors, residents, visitors and retailers, and sustaining The Pearl-Qatar’s viability for years to come. In addition, a special new island project will be launched this year. The island is an extension of The Pearl-Qatar and a continuation of UDC’s commitment to deliver exceptional lifestyle experiences. 
Continuously improving the customer experience for residents, retailers and visitors at The Pearl-Qatar has always been a priority for UDC. Several notable enhancements were also realised last year, including the opening of Khadamati , a one-stop service centre in Medina Centrale; opening of two new tunnels at The Pearl Interchange by the Public Works Authority (Ashghal); free public Wi-Fi services to all retail public areas; revamping of The Pearl-Qatar’s mobile application and website; and new prayer rooms for men and women throughout the island. 
For more information and updates about UDC, visit their website at udcqatar.com .