United Kingdom Zuckerberg apologises with full-page newspaper ads 'This was a breach of trust, and I’m sorry we didn’t do more at the time.' 25 Mar 2018 15:40 GMT Facebook Chief Executive Mark Zuckerberg has for the second time apologized over a "breach of trust", taking out full-page advertisements in British newspapers . "We have a responsibility to protect your information. If we can't, we don't deserve it," said the advert, signed by Facebook founder Zuckerberg on Sunday. Facebook has full-page ads signed by Mark Zuckerberg in UK newspapers today to apologise for the #CambridgeAnalytica scandal.The phrase "You'll need more then that my little hombre" comes to mind. pic.twitter.com/v0zyEuTFh9 — Matt Navarra (@MattNavarra) March 25, 2018 Breach of trust Zuckerberg said an app built by a university researcher "leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014". 
"This was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time," Zuckerberg said, reiterating an apology first made last week in US television interviews. 
This follows allegations by a whistle-blower that British consultancy Cambridge Analytica improperly accessed users' information to build profiles of American voters that were later used to help elect US President Donald Trump in 2016. 
The plain black text apology on a white background, with only a tiny Facebook logo, appeared in Sunday publications including The Observer - one of the newspapers whose reporting on the issue has sent Facebook's share price tumbling. 
Cambridge Analytica says it initially believed the data had been obtained in line with data protection laws, and later deleted it at Facebook's request. The consultancy said it did not use the data in work it did for the 2016 US election . Investigation 
On Friday night, investigators from Britain's data watchdog searched the London offices of Cambridge Analytica for several hours. 
Zuckerberg, whose firm has lost more than $50bn in market value since the allegations, said Facebook would give users more information and control about who can access their data. 
"Thank you for believing in this community. I promise to do better for you," he wrote. 
Advertisers Mozilla and German bank Commerzbank have suspended ads on the service and the hashtag #DeleteFacebook has been trending online. 
On Friday, electric carmaker Tesla Inc and its rocket company SpaceX 's Facebook pages - each with more than 2.6 million followers - were deleted after Chief Executive Elon Musk promised to do so. Is Facebook right to censor user content? 
SOURCE: Reuters news agency