Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy Names Xavi as First Global Ambassador Qatar's Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy Names Xavi as First Global Ambassador   19:10   Facebook Twitter Google+ Linkedin Pinterest Delicious Stumbleupon Digg Reddit Xavi Hernandez 
Former World Cup winner Xavi Hernandez has been named as the first global ambassador for the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy (SC) the organisation responsible for delivering the infrastructure required for the 2022 FIFA World Cup . 
Xavi has been an ambassador for the SC's Generation Amazing programme a key legacy project for the past two years. He will continue supporting Generation Amazing, which is the SC's flagship corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme. 
The iconic midfielder, who has won more than 30 major honours during his glittering career, will help the SC to promote various projects that harness the power of football to bring about positive social change. 
Xavi, currently the captain of QNB Stars League side Al Sadd, said in a statement he was delighted to continue his journey with the SC. 
"I have thoroughly enjoyed supporting the Generation Amazing programme since 2016 and look forward to maintaining a strong relationship with Generation Amazing and the SC during the lead-up to the 2022 World Cup," said Xavi. 
"Through my work with Generation Amazing I have seen first-hand what football can achieve in communities in Qatar and across the region. Football has the power to unite people, dispel stereotypes and break down social barriers." 
"The SC is determined to leave a lasting legacy, long after the 2022 World Cup is over, and I look forward to helping the organisation deliver its objectives," added Xavi. 
In 2016, Xavi's first act as a Generation Amazing ambassador was to promote football for girls at a pitch built by Generation Amazing at Al Baqa'a refugee camp in Jordan. Since then he has attended numerous activations in Qatar, including events involving schoolchildren and workers engaged with Generation Amazing. 
In 2017 Xavi also supported Generation Amazing during the 2017 World Innovation Summit for Education and was involved in the reading of Generation Amazing books to young children in Qatar. 
Hassan al Thawadi, SC Secretary General, described Xavi as an iconic player who's committed to harnessing the power of football."We are honoured that Xavi is going to continue working closely alongside the SC and support the delivery of our legacy programmes," said Thawadi. 
"It has been a pleasure to collaborate with Xavi in recent years. He is an iconic footballer and a player synonymous with success and fair play. Having a player of his magnitude supporting our initiatives can only help them to grow and leave the impact we desire long after the last ball is kicked in 2022. We truly believe Xavi will help us build bridges across cultures and throughout the region." © Copyright Qatar Tribune. All Rights Reserved. Rate Article: