Tribune News Network
Doha
Fifty One East, Qatar's favourite department store, and Sony Middle East and Africa (MEA) unveiled an impressive addition to Sony's full-frame mirrorless camera line-up, the entry level f1'e17III (ILCE-A7M3), at an exclusive event held at La Cigale Hotel, Doha.
The event was attended by members of the Youth Hobbies Centre along with shortlisted contestants of the Doha Night Photography Competition and professional photographers based in Doha.
The 'e17III has incorporated many of the features and improvements from the famed Sony 'e19 and 'e17RIII cameras. It features a brand new 24.2MP back-illuminated Exmor R CMOS image sensor, which is paired with a front-end LSI that effectively doubles the readout speed of the image sensor.
It also has an updated BIONZ X processing-engine that boosts processing speed by approximately 1.8 times compared to the 'e17 II, allowing for faster shooting speeds while maintaining exceptional ISO range.
The camera also features a massive 15-stop dynamic range at low sensitivity settings, ensuring outstanding overall performance at all settings and in all shooting conditions, with significant advancements in accurate colour reproductions of skin tones and the vibrant colours of nature.
The 'e17III also includes the addition of 4D Focus capabilities with 425 contrast AF points that work with a 693-point focal-plane phase-detection AF system, which cover approximately 93 per cent of the frame for reliable focusing and tracking of subjects.
This new full-frame model can output 14 bit RAW format even in silent and continuous shooting modes, and is equipped with a 5-axis optical image stabilization system that results in a 5.0 step shutter speed advantage.
It offers 4K video recording which uses full pixel readout without pixel binning to collect about 2.4x the amount of data required for 4K movies, resulting in clearer images, better colours and enhanced detail.
Taro Kimura, Managing Director, Sony Middle East & Africa, said, f0"The photography scene in Qatar is growing at a rapid pace and the market continues to remain a key growth market for Sony. As we continue to redefine the boundaries of photography, we are delighted to launch, together with Fifty One East, the f1'e17III, our latest entry level camera in the full frame mirrorless segment, for photography enthusiasts in Qatar.f0"
Fifty One East, in collaboration with Youth Hobbies Centre, also announced the winners of the Doha Night Photography Competition at the event, who were awarded the f1'e17RIII and SEL2470Z; 'e16500 and SEL1670Z; and RX100V for the first, second and third prizes respectively.