Tribune News Network
In a bid to redefine coaching for entrance to professional colleges in India, the Al Wakra branch of Global Education Centre (GEC) in association with India's No. 1 and globally celebrated IITJEE/NEET entrance coaching institute"askIITians" was inaugurated by the Ambassador of India to Qatar HE P Kumaran, on March 23.
While hailing the move that could transform the entrance preparation arena in Qatar in the years ahead, the chief guest, himself an IITian, highlighted the tougher competition the present generation of students has to face, compared to the 1986 IIT entrance that he cleared from among over 70,000 aspirants, while competing for 2,000 odds seats in just 5 IITs across India. He observed that at present, over one million students undertake entrance examinations at two levels (IITJEE mains and advanced) for over 20,000 seats.
The ambassador was surprised to note that despite the presence of excellent schools in Qatar, only a few students were able to secure seats in the IITs and AIIMS's during the past years, and he hoped that with the launch of askIITians, students of Qatar would be better equipped to succeed in the entrance examinations.
askIITians' Chief Promoter Nishanth Sharma, narrating his own craving for professional coaching as an IIT aspirant, said the askIITians was initiated as an answer to the need for providing state-of-the-art entrance coaching to remotely located students, aided by technology.
The guest of honour added that with over 10 years of successful existence, IITJEE and NEET entrance coaching syllabi of the askIITians is one of the most carefully designed one entailing in-depth concept building, varied problems solving, and doubts eradication sessions, employing latest educational tools and software. Sharma said the coaching sessions are exclusively handled by scientists, engineers and doctors from prestigious IISc, IITs and AIIMS's, and is bound to bring out results par excellence by the end of the first year itself.
ICC President Milan Arun was pleased that with the advent of askIITians in Qatar, entrance coaching sector will be catapulted to new horizons. Thanking the GEC management for such a project, the guest of honour said the joint venture is the right answer to the pursuits of talented students for such an institute in Qatar and her voice echoed the opinion of the parent fraternity.
Speaking on the occasion, GEC Managing Director Ashraf Achoth asserted that the unique, highly result oriented, and greatly successful training sessions of the askIITians provide the right answer to aspiring students searching for academic excellence. Ashraf said the team GEC had brought the best trainers to Qatar and the selection process took long to finalise, because Qatar deserves the best.
The ambassador launched the askIITians training book in Qatar while the Brainobrain study material was launched by Brainobrain Qatar Managing Director Hardik Patel. Preeti Srivastava, the head of Brainobrain Division at GEC gave a brief presentation on the Brainobrain training and its capability to enhance arithmetic agility of younger students.
The ambassador also honoured prominent dignitaries of the Indian community, who have contributed immensely towards mentoring and transforming numerous young lives by their passionate perseverance and altruistic commitment. They included ICC Genaral Secretary and Olive international School CEO Juttas Paul; Chief Coordinator CIGI Issuddin KK, Chaliyar Doha President, journalist and philanthropist VC Mashood, Gujarat Samaj President Hasmuk Patel, Bangya Parishad President Moumachhi Bera, and Maharashtra Mandal President Sachin S Kinhikar.
The function commenced with a recitation of verses from the Holy Quran by Rabee Aman and 'Stuti' by Suchitra Nair. Rekha Shrikumar welcomed the chief guest, guests of honour, other dignitaries as well as the students and parents.
The teachers were introduced by askIITians General Manager Subrat Sagar, who underscored the knowledge and professional exposure of each subject mentor and awarded the branch badges to them. GEC Al Wakrah Managing Director Shrikumar thanked the chief guest and participants. Shrikumar added that team of askIITians also handles CBSE regular tuition for Class VIII to XII, which are integrated with IIT foundation course, at GEC Wakrah. Numerous students, parents, and several prominent personalities of the Indian community attended the event.