Satyendra Pathak
Doha
Taiwanese manufacturers of energy-efficient heat insulator glasses are in talks with Qatari companies to set up factories in the country, a senior official of Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA) said on Sunday.
Talking to Qatar Tribune on the sidelines of Taiwan Green Energy Solution Day seminar in Doha, TAITRA Vice-Chairman Chuang Suo-Hang said Qatar is ideally located to set up manufacturing units to produce energy-efficient glasses to cater to the vast Middle East, African and European markets. These products include heat insulation solar glass, eco smart glass and heat mirror insulating glass.
"Qatar itself is a big market for such products. If manufactured locally, these glasses will be much cheaper than the imported ones," he said.
With Qatar's plan to generate 20 percent of the country's energy needs through renewable sources by 2024 and to reduce its per capita energy consumption by 15 percent, Suo-Hang said, Taiwanese solutions for energy-efficient buildings can play a significant role in achieving these goals.
The six Taiwanese green energy solution providers that showcased their products and highlighted the importance of conserving energy will be holding further talks with their Qatari counterparts to finalise deals for setting up plants in Qatar, Suo-Hang said.
Highlighting the benefits of energy-efficient glasses, Suo-Hang said residential and commercial building using these glasses would require consuming 60 percent less energy than the normal glasses.
NexPower Technology Corporation President Spencer Yeah said he sees Qatar as a big market for its major product the see-through eco smart glasses.
"We are pioneers of the thin-film silicon-based PV technology in Taiwan and bring innovative solutions to a greener environment in Qatar," Yeah said.
"While the aim of our visit this time is to forge partnerships with local companies for supplying our products to the Qatar market, we are also serious about setting up a factory in Qatar," Yeah added.
Yeah, who is leading the Taiwanese delegation, said he would be holding meetings with Qatari Businessmen Association and Al Faisal Holding Chairman Sheikh Faisal bin Qassim al Thani, Al Sawari Holding Chairman Sheikh Turki bin Faisal and other prominent Qatari businessmen to discuss ways to enhance trade cooperation between Qatar and Taiwan.