Tribune News network
Doha
Qatar Chamber (QC) held a meeting with a visiting Chinese business delegation led by Chairman of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) Jiang Zengwei in Doha.
The two sides discussed ways to boost cooperation in various sectors, including construction, information technology, electricity, mining, textiles, tourism and other areas, a press statement announced on Sunday.
QC Vice-Chairman Mohammed bin Ahmed bin Towar al Kuwari said that such meetings would contribute to achieving greater cooperation between the private sectors in the two countries.
"Such meetings resulted in the opening of a centre for the settlement of transactions in Chinese currency (yuan) in Qatar last year, the first of its kind in the Middle East," he pointed out.
Towar said,"The meetings also aim to promote trade and investment between the two countries, which exceeded $10 billion last year, making China one of the most important trading partners of Qatar.
"The two countries have excellent bilateral relations in economic, commercial and cultural fields."
Referring to"Made in China" exhibition, organised by QC, Towar said such forums highlight technological and industrial development of Chinese firms, opening the door for Qatari companies and businessmen to enhance mutual cooperation, benefitting the private sector in the two countries.
He stressed QC's keen interest in enhancing trade cooperation with China, pointing to the memorandum of understanding signed last year with CCPIT to join the Silk Road Business Council.
The two sides also signed a cooperation agreement to enhance private sector and attract more partnerships between businessmen in both countries.
Zengwei said China and Qatar are key partners as Qatar has become China's second largest supplier of liquefied natural gas (LNG), while China is the largest supplier of goods to Qatar.
"The two countries have established a comprehensive economic and trade cooperation, enhancing trade between the two sides, and registering a growth rate of 46 percent on an annual basis in 2017,
He pointed out that China is keen to strengthen cooperation with Qatar as an important country that enjoys natural resources of oil and gas and actively promotes diversified economic development.
"China is expected to import goods worth $24 trillion in the next 15 years, attracting large foreign direct investment, and therby creating great opportunities for further cooperation with Qatar," Zengwei noted.
He called for boosting the strategic partnership between the two sides by expanding cooperation in sectors like energy, infrastructure, science and technology and finance.
Earlier, the Minister of Economy and Commerce HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani met with the Chairman of China's Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) Jiang Zengwei in Doha.
The meeting, attended by Chinese Ambassador to Qatar HE Li Chen, reviewed the bilateral relations and explored aspects of mutual cooperation, particularly in the economic, trade and investment fields, and ways to strengthen and develop them.