Asif Iqbal
Doha
Qatar Fuel Company (Woqod) plans to invest QR634 million in various expansion projects in the country this year, a top company executive has said.
"Our priority would be to invest in the Qatari market for all our expansion as we have no plans in the short-term to invest in overseas market," Woqod CEO Saad Rashid al Muhannadi told reporters on the sidelines of the company's annual general meeting (AGM) in Doha on Sunday.
According to Muhannadi, the company has already signed contracts for the construction of another 30 petrol stations in the country. He said the company is committed to meeting the fuel and energy needs of the country.
Regarding the progress of Woqod's proposed lubricant plant in the country, Muhannadi said,"We are collaborating with some companies and we have a very solid plan, which we will announce soon."
Earlier, addressing shareholders, Muhannadi said the sales of petroleum products for the year 2017 saw a 6 percent increase with the sales of jet fuel alone witnessing a 10 percent increase due to increase in Qatar Airways flights.
He said the opening of new fuel stations in 2017 boosted the retail sales of petroleum products, which increased by 26 percent.
Muhannadi further said that Woqod's stake of the retail market increased from 48 percent to 58 percent and the company will exert more efforts to increase its stake to 85 percent by the beginning of 2020.
Regarding the sales of LPG, Muhannadi said LPG sales increased by 27 percent, while the cylinder sales rose by 7 percent.
He said the company is planning to stop the use of steel cylinders and will be launching promotional offers for Shafaf cylinders.
Updating shareholders on the natural gas sales and supply, the Woqod CEO said the company is supplying natural gas to the factories located in the New Industrial Area, and is also operating a station for compressed natural gas (CNG) station.
He noted that CNG sales increased by 22 percent last year compared to 2016.
On fuel stations, Muhannadi said the company has set out an ambitious plan aiming to double the number of company-operated fuel stations within three years to 120 by 2020.
In his address to the shareholders, Woqod Chairman Ahmed Saif al Sulaiti said the company took the necessary measures to procure the products it used to receive from some of the blockading countries, from alternative sources.
He said the necessary means of logistics support and alternative foreign contractual arrangements with favourable terms were already in place, enabling smooth and continuous flow of these products and materials into Qatar.
Sulaiti said the company has an ambitious plan for increasing its market stake for distribution and transportation of petroleum products, natural gas, bitumen, ship bunker fuel, and other products.
"This would be achieved through the implementation and operation of various projects, after concluding the necessary contracts and agreements relevant to these activities," Sulaiti added.
"Considering the strong financial results and the need for major capital expenditures that have been planned for 2018 and beyond, the board is recommending a distribution of cash dividend of 80 percent or QR8 per share of the nominal paid-up capital,"he announced.