LN MALLICK
Doha
Pakistan and Qatar enjoy strong and multi-faceted relationships, which have grown manifolds with the passage of time, Pakistan's Ambassador to Qatar HE Shahzad Ahmad has said.
Speaking at a reception hosted by the embassy to mark Pakistan's National Day on Sunday, the ambassador said,"Pakistan and Qatar have strong ties and ours is not a singular relationship but multi-faceted. The last several years have seen these ties become even stronger. Our mission in Qatar continues to look for avenues of cooperation between our two countries."
He expressed his gratitude to HH the Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani, the leadership of Qatar, the Qatari Government and the people"for the love and support that they have shown and continue to show to the Pakistani people."
Highlighting the significance of the Pakistan's National Day, the envoy said,"March 23, 1940 was the date of the Lahore Resolution moved by the All-India Muslim League, seeking to establish an independent Muslim state in the region denoted as British India. The resolution took place at what was then known as Minto Park and today the location of the resolution is commemorated by the monument known as the Minar-e-Pakistan.
He described Pakistan as a country endowed with natural beauty that beckons visitors.
"Today, it has never been easier to visit and learn about the rich culture of Pakistan and its people. The Financial Times added Pakistan to its list of 'Where to go in 2018: an insider's guide'. Now with nine flights a day from Qatar Airways and a journey time of three hours, it has never been easier to make this a destination," the ambassador said.
He lamented that Pakistan's image portrayed by the media is from reality.
"Pakistan is culturally rich, diverse and the Pakistani people are welcoming and tolerant. Misperceptions have been popularised by lazy, and at times, biased journalism," he said.
He also thanked sponsors and organisers of the event, which included Qatar Airways, Ooredoo and Katara Hospitality as well as Ritz Carlton Hotel for its continued support.
Minister of Justice and Acting Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs HE Dr Hassan bin Lahdan Saqr al Mohannadi was the chief guest on the occasion.
Also present were Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohammad bin Abdullah al Rumaihi, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs HE Dr Ahmad Hassan al Hamadi, Director of Protocol at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs HE Ibrahim Fakhro, Dean of the Diplomatic Community and Ambassador of Eritrea HE Ali Ibrahim Ahmed, Qatari dignitaries, members of the Diplomatic Corps and notable Pakistanis living in Qatar.