Tribune News Network
Doha
IN a unique gathering of academia, industry and law experts, Hamad Bin Khalifa University's (HBKU) College of Law and Public Policy (CLPP), in collaboration with Qatar International Court and Dispute Resolution Centre, will present a colloquium titled the 'Role of Qatar International Court in the Qatari Legal Order' at Education City on Wednesday, (March 21).
The event is open to lawyers, students, academics as well as members of the public to discuss the nature, purposes, applicable law and enforcement of judgments of Qatar International Court (QIC) as well as to consider the role of the court in the Qatari legal order.
The CLPP discussion will be attended by several notable speakers, including CEO of QIC Faisal Rashid al Sahouti; Senior Consultant at DLA Piper Tariq al Abdulla; Founding and Managing Partner at Al Marri & El Hage Law Office Claudia el Hage; Registrar at QIC Christopher Grout; and Assistant Professor at HBKU's CLPP Dr Georgios Dimitropoulos.
CLPP Dean Professor Clinton Francis said,"The unique and fundamental purpose of QIC makes it a fascinating subject to both teach and study. Consisting of both civil and commercial courts with a composition of judges that is predominantly international, QIC is a special institution comparable to only a handful of similar institutions around the world all of which have been established very recently. This special colloquium and gathering of top-tier academics and legal experts is of special value to us at CLPP."
QIC is a domestic court dealing with domestic cases, comprising a Civil and Commercial Court and a specialist Regulatory Tribunal. It brings together some of the most revered legal and judicial figures from around the world, known for their independence, impartiality and professional expertise.
The court was designed to have international standards in dispute resolution and to be part of the strategy of the Qatar Financial Center to attract international business and financial services into Qatar. Today, it constitutes a novel mechanism of dispute resolution, particularly of law pertaining to QFC.
As a notable provider of legal education, both on a national and regional scale, HBKU's CLPP offers training to students from a variety of disciplines. Professors ensure that participants understand the diverse legal systems that inform Qatari law and that govern complex events and transactions.
To foster growth within the educational system and provide broad opportunities, CLPP has also developed executive training for government and corporate leaders.
In 2015, the College launched the Juris Doctor programme, which today is the first graduate law degree of its kind to be offered in the MENA region.