dpa
Jacksonville, Illinois
Eli Bridge Company has survived depression, war, foreign competition and bankruptcy reorganisation, building Ferris wheels and other rides for amusement parks and travelling carnivals for 119 years.
The latest challenge for the business in Jacksonville, Illinois, is the rising cost of steel and aluminium, as a result of tariffs on imports of the two key metals announced this month by US President Donald Trump.
Eli Bridge's largest Ferris wheels weigh 20 tonnes, mostly steel beams, and can carry up to 48 people - up to four tonnes of humanity - swinging in 16 seats fabricated from aircraft aluminium. With lives hanging in the balance - and the Eli Bridge reputation on the line - the company buys only US-made bolts and rivets and mostly American steel.
"We buy all of our fasteners from one company,"said president and chief executive Patty Sullivan, great grand-daughter of the founder.
"When you have people 60 feet up in the air, you don't want things to perform not as expected."
Yet Eli Bridge is far from immune to the potential impact of tariffs.
"I am at least a little bit concerned because if the foreign prices rise, it opens up the opportunity for American manufacturers to raise prices,"Sullivan said.
Eswar Prasad, a trade economist at the Brookings Institution, a Washington-based centre-left think tank, said that automation has been a major source of job losses in the steel industry, more than foreign competition, and that the Trump administration's tariffs might boost US steelmakers'profit margins without major additions to their payrolls.
"The broader negative effect is that these tariffs would raise prices for all American consumers, and that may not be a good thing for either US output or employment,"he said.
American Keg, a company that describes itself as the only US maker of steel kegs for beer and cider, announced lay-offs last month of one-third of its workforce of 30 people in Pottsville, Pennsylvania, in anticipation of Trump's tariffs.
The job losses followed a Commerce Department report concluding that metal imports were undermining national security, a finding cited in the presidential order.
Like Eli Bridge, American Keg uses domestic steel but is feeling a pinch from the tariffs.
"The tariffs have some unintended consequences,"American Keg chief executive Paul Czachor told broadcaster Fox Business.
"As the tariffs were being discussed and implemented, the cost of domestic steel has continued to come up, rise, since the fourth quarter of last year."
Competing products, such as Chinese-made beer kegs, are finished goods not subject to the same tariff on raw materials.
Czachor said he has been forced to raise prices, causing reduced orders in recent months, and he fears American Keg customers are nearing a"breaking point."
Eli Bridge has been headquartered for the last century in a red brick factory high enough to assemble a Ferris wheel, alongside a railroad line in Jacksonville, a leafy town of 19,000 people on the flat-as-a-table Illinois prairie, 350 kilometres south-west of Chicago.
One wheel, known as Big Eli, is permanently installed in a Jacksonville park along Main Street, operated on summer weekends by the local Rotary Club to raise money for causes in the community.
Last year, Eli Bridge's workforce of 19 people plus temporary workers built three of signature Ferris wheels and one Scrambler, the company's trademarked spinning ride, in addition to work refurbishing existing rides.
The company first sold Ferris wheels overseas in 1905, just five years after its founding, and has sent rides to 36 countries, Sullivan said.
While battling imports - Sullivan cites an Italian rival that competes on price with what she considers suspect quality - Eli Bridge is still seeking foreign markets for itself.
The company has made efforts to break into the lucrative, fast-growing Chinese market, even bidding for contracts there, but so far found it difficult to compete on price, while confronting what Sullivan describes as the country's opaque and arbitrary regulatory system.