Tribune News Network
IN common parlance it's been called the"gentleman's game". And for good reasons too, the pundits would say. Ever since the first officially recognised Test match was played on March 15 19, 1877, between England and Australia, at the Melbourne Cricket Ground (MCG), the game of cricket has been largely defined by an ethos that puts premium on 'a gentlemanly manner'.
In the 17th century, when cricket had gained a fair amount of popularity and English aristocrats had started playing the game, the latter set about delineating the norms that would keep at bay acts of sledging, cheating, bodyline bowling, temper tantrums, excessive appealing etc. Or, for example, expecting the batsmen to 'walk'even if the umpire decided otherwise, if they knew their willows had kissed the ball.
The fans of legendary Indian opener Sunil Gavaskar would recall, for example, how he wouldn't wait for the umpire's call before walking back to the pavilion.
This 'gentlemanly' trait has survived, by and large, although much water has flown down the Yarra River that runs through Melbourne, the city that hosted the game's first-ever Test match.
The latest episode of ball-tampering that has surfaced during the ongoing Test match between Australia and South Africa seems to have plunged the game to a new low, forcing Steve Smith and David Warner to step down as captain and vice captain, respectively, of the Australian team, for the remainder of the match. This seems to be unprecedented someone stepping down as captain in the midst of a game.
No less a person than the Australian Prime Minister Malcolm Turnbull has had to weigh in on the controversy, and he has rightly lashed out at Smith's team for cheating.
The past few decades have seen the Australians largely dominating the game, at home and abroad, filling up the leadership vacuum that was created since the demise of West Indies as cricket's numero uno.
Winning matches has become something of a habit with the Australian teams for a long period now and nobody can fault for them this; for looking to maintain their winning streak or sporting supremacy. However, lately, they seem to have been bitten by a new bug that of"winning at all cost"!
The latest act to kick off a storm is not the first instance of ball-tampering in cricket. Over the years several big names have invited similar mirth. John Lever, Michael Atherton, Shane Warne, Waqar Younis, Zaheer Khan, and even the current South African skipper Faf du Plessis. They have been under the cloud at some point of their playing days over such a misdemeanour.
However, what distinguishes the current row from the previous instances of infamy is a shocking disdain for human values; it seems to be inspired by the winning-at-all-cost mantra. The disgraced Aussie skipper has admitted to being desperate to make things happen in their favour, and that the team management was pretty aware of the shameful tactics being employed by one of their youngest teammates.
The current series being played between South Africa and Australia had already been mired by questionable behaviour from players on both sides, something that doesn't help the cause of 'gentlemanly manners'that the game's British progenitors had decreed in the first place. There has been a consensus over the years on the flash points that there would be occasions of heated exchange between players, but without imperiling the basic ethos of the game. And much of concurrence has largely been adhered to, about the players being their competitive best on the field and on friendly terms off it.
Sadly, things seem to be changing.
Rattled by the gravity of the current episode, Cricket Australia (CA) CEO James Sutherland has observed:"Cricket Australia and Australian cricket fans expect certain standards of conduct from cricketers representing our country, and on this occasion these standards have not been met."
Australian PM Turnbull too has called the incident a"shocking disappointment".
Clearly, as a sportsman, you can't be aiming to come up trumps"at all cost", and still hope to keep inspiring respect and grace.
One hopes the larger cricketing fraternity doesn't lose sight of the game's original mantra: cricket as a"gentleman's game".