Tribune News Service
SAY air pollution and we tend to think of car exhausts, large factories and open fires. But in Western cities, it turns out the biggest source of air pollution is household items like your hair spray and shampoo.
A team including Brian McDonald and Jessica Gilman of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Colorado examined data on air pollution from the US and Europe. Increasingly strict regulations mean that pollution from cars and other vehicles has fallen. As a result, a larger proportion of Western pollution now comes from everyday consumer products that release a mix of carbon-based chemicals into the air.
To identify the types of product responsible, the team calculated the flow of chemicals in and out of the air of Los Angeles. The largest source was personal care products like hair spray, shampoo and deodorants, says McDonald. Other sources were paint and adhesives.
"As many of these emissions occur indoors, and given the amount of time spent indoors, there are potentially important health implications," says Frank Kelly of King's College London.
It is important to put these findings in context, however. They apply only to highly developed places like the US and western Europe, where air quality has been improving for decades, says Michael Brauer at the University of British Columbia in Canada. Emissions from consumer products are significant only because those from transport and industry have fallen.
For the locations in the world with the most severe air pollution problems such as China and India, the story remains unchanged, Brauer says. There, the main problems are"traditional" sources, like coal-fired power plants, wood, coal and dung burned for heating and cooking, and agricultural burning.
Emissions from consumer products are significant only because those from transport have fallen
So the next time you see a report of horrendous smog in Delhi or Beijing, don't blame the shampoo. There is also no reason to slow efforts to cut emissions from transport, both in the Western world and elsewhere.
But now we know that these everyday products are clogging up our air, what can we do about it? We can all make a difference, says Gilman."Using the smallest amount possible to get the job done, or using fragrance-free products, are easy ways to reduce emissions." Even if this doesn't make much difference on a large scale, it may well improve the air in your home.
However, in the long run, public health specialists agree that new regulations must be passed to ensure that products emit less.
That may seem a daunting task, because the pollution is coming from such a wide range of products, but it is not impossible. For instance, many paints are now based on water rather than organic solvents, so hardly emit anything. Kelly also highlights the UK's recent ban on microbeads, an effort to tackle plastic pollution."Changes can be made," he says.
Cutting these emissions may be a win-win situation, says Brauer."The emissions are not waste products or by-products of combustion, but are essentially product that is being 'lost' to the atmosphere," he says."Reducing their release during use means less of these compounds need to be produced." So manufacturers may ultimately make savings. Who knows, they might even pass them on to you.