Tribune News Network
Doha
W Doha Hotel & Residences hosted the works of the International Artists of Doha (IAD) Group at its Art 29 gallery. The exhibition titled 'Emotions' opened to the public on March 24 and will run until April 9 from 9.00am to 7.00pm.
The International Artists of Doha (IAD) Group is a non-profit organisation for 30 national and international artists living and working in Doha. It was formed in 2011 by two Dutch artists. The group provides members with a platform for sharing experiences and interacting with other artists from around the globe, as well as organising group workshops and local community initiatives.
Once a year, IAD showcases its members' works to the public by organising an exhibition accompanied by workshops and live paintings. This year, the group has chosen W Doha's Art 29 to feature the artworks of 26 artists stemming from different countries, cultural backgrounds and professions. The exhibition undertakes the journey into the world inside us. Each artist interprets the reflections, energies and feelings that merge the inside and outside worlds.
As part of the exhibition, IAD is also organising daily interactive workshops in the form of live paintings where local art students and amateurs can explore the artists' techniques ranging from cubism to knife painting, silk painting, face portraits, watercolours and to acrylic painting.
Art 29 has been established to inspire and nurture creativity by showcasing the works of emerging local, regional and international artists. The gallery has previously featured prominent Qatari names including Ahmed bin Majed al Madheed, the artist behind the iconic 'Tamim-al-Majd' portrait, Abdulwahed al Mawlawi, known for documenting local artistic expression from the late 1990s to 2002, Lulu M who is a self-taught artist recognised for her minimalist abstract compositions and Fahad al Obaidly, who regularly addresses issues of 'identity crisis' in his work.
The gallery also played host to the efforts in photography of Virginia Commonwealth University in Qatar students and the 'Currents' exhibit by Emergeast, the first online art gallery that brings together emerging Middle Eastern artists and young collectors under one umbrella.
For further information about Art 29 at W Doha Hotel & Residences, please visit: http://www.whoteldoha.com/art29 or call +974 4453 5000.