Tribune News Network
Doha
EXPERTS from Georgetown University in Qatar (GU-Q), Al Jazeera and Hamad Bin Khalifa University will gather to discuss the Gulf crisis and potential future developments at an upcoming seminar in Doha on Tuesday.
Being organised by the Al Jazeera Centre for Studies (AJCS), the public event will be held on Georgetown's Education City campus at 6pm.
Convened under the title 'The Gulf Crisis, US Mediation and Future Trends', the event will focus on the proposed visit by Gulf leaders to the United States for talks to resolve the dispute.
Speakers include Abdullah bin Hamad al Athbah, editor-in-chief of Al-Arab; journalist and political analyst Abdul Aziz al Ishaq, GU-Q's Professor Rory Miller and Professor Steven Wright, associate dean for academic affairs and research at Hamad Bin Khalifa University.
The event will be moderated by Al Jazeera Mubasher's Salem Almahroukey.
"In line with Georgetown's commitment to fostering open dialogue and informed debate, this event will bring broad perspectives on developments in the Gulf to the audiences from Qatar and the region," said GU-Q Dean Ahmad Dallal."We are happy to provide a platform to expand the public's understanding of these issues and possible solutions, as part of our ongoing contribution to the academic environment in Qatar."
Director of Al Jazeera Centre for Studies Mohammed Mukhtar al Khalil said the seminar is being held as the Gulf crisis enters its first year while still unresolved.
He said,"We at AJCS were of the opinion that it is necessary to reconsider the variable factors of the crisis and to explore the prospects of resolution. One of these prospects, if held, is the US-GCC Camp David summit next May."
"By putting the matter to extensive discussion and analyses by experts and professionals during the seminar, we hope new perspectives are laid out on how to tone down the negative impacts of the crisis on the peoples of the region. It is also an opportunity to put forward more viewpoints of any possible d`tente even if not currently looming large."
Founded in 2005, GU-Q empowers students and shapes the human capacity that the MENA region needs for the 21st century. As part of this effort, GU-Q continuously produces major studies of regional and international significance, including multi- and inter-disciplinary research initiatives that study strategic, political, economic and social realities in Qatar, as well as the geopolitical reconfigurations of the region and beyond. The university has organised several symposiums dedicated to understanding the geopolitics of the Gulf and the wider Middle East region.