Emir congratulates president of Greece
THE Emir His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani sent on Sunday a cable of congratulations to President of the Hellenic Republic Prokopis Pavlopoulos on the anniversary of his country's Independence Day. (QNA)
Deputy Emir greets president of Greece
THE Deputy Emir HH Sheikh Abdullah bin Hamad al Thani sent on Sunday a cable of congratulations to President of the Hellenic Republic Prokopis Pavlopoulos on the anniversary of his country's Independence Day. (QNA)
PM congratulates Greek premier
PRIME Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani sent on Sunday a cable of congratulations to Prime Minister of the Hellenic Republic Alexis Tsipras on the anniversary of his country's Independence Day. (QNA)
NHRC chief meets Italian ambassador
CHAIRMAN of the National Human Rights Committee (NHRC) Dr Ali bin Smaikh al Marri met with Ambassador of the Italian Republic to Qatar HE Pasquale Salzano on Sunday. During the meeting, the two sides discussed ways of mutual cooperation and the exchange of experiences on rights issues. (QNA)
FM's special envoy meets Japan official
SPECIAL Envoy of the Foreign Minister for Counterterrorism and Mediation of Conflict Resolution Dr Mutlaq bin Majed al Qahtani met with Director-General of the Middle Eastern and African Affairs Bureau at the Japanese Foreign Ministry Hiroshi Oka on Sunday. The meeting took place on the sidelines of the Global Counterterrorism Forum's meeting that took place in Tokyo. The two sides discussed bilateral relations and issues of joint interest. (QNA)
Khulaifi meets Kyrgyz minister
DIRECTOR General of Public Security, Staff Major General Saad bin Jassim al Khulaifi met with Kyrgyzstan Minister of Emergency Situations, Kubatbek Boronov, and Secretary-General of the International Civil Defense Organization, Vladimir Kuvshinov, separately on Sunday. During the two meetings, they discussed a number of issues of common interest, and touched on the topics on the agenda of the meetings of the International Civil Defense and Organization, Executive Council at its 51st session and the 23rd session of the General Assembly. (QNA)
QMC CEO meets officials from ASBU
CHIEF Executive Officer of the Qatar Media Corporation (QMC) HE Sheikh Abdulrahman bin Hamad al Thani met with head of Arab States Broadcasting Union (ASBU) Mohammed al Awash and ASBU Director-General Eng. Abdel Rahim Suleiman. The meeting discussed different media cooperation aspects between QMC and ASBU, and ways to boost and develop them. (QNA)