Tribune News Network
DOHA
Qatar Society of Engineers (QSE), in collaboration with the Cultural Village Foundation (Katara), will host the Green Engineering Conference and Exhibition in April with the aim to raise public awareness about 'green' concepts and techniques in engineering and construction.
Being held under the patronage of Minister of Energy and Industry Dr Mohammed bin Saleh al Sada, the event will take place at Regency Hall, Building 12, Katara from April 23 to April 25.
The three-day event aims to raise awareness in the community about green engineering and encourage the sectors operating in the country to carry out their mission of ensuring a sustainable future, said Eng Mohammed Abdulla al Kuwari, vice-chairman of the Qatar Society of Engineers and general supervisor of the event.
"Green Engineering is a relatively new and developing concept and many people are not aware of its importance in our daily life and how it can be practically applied in different sectors. The main objective of this event is to raise public awareness on this issue," said Eng Kuwari.
The conference also seeks to promote the best standards and specifications in green engineering and present Qatar's significant achievements in areas of sustainability and green engineering, added Eng Kuwari.
Green Engineering offers an innovative and sophisticated technique to design products, installations and processes in a way that reduces the pollution produced by the source.
It also rationalises energy consumption, reduces exposure to pollution and potential risks to human health and the environment. Green engineering techniques rely on improved uses of material and energy throughout the life cycle of the product, facilities and processes, without sacrificing economic efficiency.
Green Engineering is applied not only in building, but also in all processes of manufacturing, construction, installations and recycling.
All inputs and outputs are safe in order to reduce depletion of natural resources by implementing engineering solutions that go beyond current dominant technologies to achieve a sustainable healthy environment.
The concept of 'green engineering' can be summed up as the use of measurement mechanisms and controlling in the design, development and improvement of products, technologies and facilities to ensure access to eco-friendly and economically viable outputs.
Experts from Qatar University, Qatar Foundation, Qatar Airways, Mowasalat and various private companies have been invited to speak on a wide range of topics related to Green Engineering to an audience comprising students, experts, company representatives and industry stake holders.
The Green Engineering exhibition will showcase latest technology, innovation, information, resources and materials used in Green Engineering in different sectors.