Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Charity (QC) has distributed winter relief items and food aid to more than 1,500 needy persons in Kosovo at a total cost of QR500,000.
The initiative was within the framework of the QC's 'Affected By Winter' campaign, in cooperation with four municipalities of the country, where the temperature drops to 18 degrees below zero.
Mahmoud Abbas, director of the QC office in Kosovo, said that the Charity has distributed winter relief items and food baskets to families as an urgent response to alleviate the suffering of those affected by the winter in the Balkans.
He added that each family received wood for heating and winter clothes, which include two jackets, two slacks, two shirts, shoes, a pullover and a coverlet, in addition to a food basket containing oil, flour, sugar, beans, rice, macaroni, tea and packets of spices.
Bashkim Krasniqi, deputy minister of public service of Kosovo, thanked QC for its outstanding efforts in the fields of development, relief and in supporting the needy and orphans to improve their lives, hoping QC would continue its activities in Kosovo.
Faruk Mujka, deputy mayor of Mitrovica, expressed his pleasure in the participation with QC to distribute the aid to poor families who are in dire need of such assistance. He hoped that other charities would follow the QC's ways in coordination with the country's authorities.
The beneficiaries of the winter relief expressed their happiness in getting the aid, wishing that such generous efforts would continue to benefit as many needy families as possible.
Expressing his joy and thanks to QC, Sadri Faratti said,"We are still in your memory, as you brought this aid to us in an area located on the mountain during this bitter cold." Also, Hamida Babai thanked the QC's humanitarian efforts with the same emotional way, saying,"We cannot forget the support of Qatar."
The Kosovo project covers different segments of the community, most notably sponsoring orphans, people with special needs and poor families, as the number of sponsored persons reached more than 2,200.
Besides, more than 4,000 people have benefited from educational and training courses organised through QC's Qatar Training Centre. Over 315 income-generating projects have been implemented, while the number of water and sanitation projects has risen up to 400, in addition to 20 construction projects which involve houses and mosques.