Tribune News Network
Doha
Qatar Red Crescent Society (QRCS) and the International Centre for Sport Security (ICSS), within the framework of its 'Save the Dream' initiative, have joined forces to strengthen the role of sport in promoting health and access to aid at a global level as part of a wide-ranging cooperation agreement.
The agreement was signed by Mohammed bin Hamad Hanzab, chairman of the ICSS and founder of 'Save the Dream', and Ali bin Hassan al Hammadi, secretary-general of QRCS.
The signing ceremony, which took place at QRCS's headquarter on Sunday, was attended by a number of QRCS and 'Save the Dream' officials.
Siham Alawami, director of Special Projects at the ICSS's 'Save the Dream', said:"This partnership will see both parties exploring cooperation opportunities across a number of projects that aim to maximise the sport's vital contribution to enhancing health programmes and facilitating access to aid in most underserved communities."
The agreement will enhance joint ICSS-QRCS cooperation in various fields, while protecting public health and safety within local communities.
It paves the way as well for the exchange of knowledge and expertise between the two sides, with the aim of initiating various joint awareness and educational activities to support sports community and public health.
Launched in 2012 by the ICSS, with support from the Qatar Olympic Committee (QOC) and involvement of international sports figures like Alessandro Del Piero, 'Save the Dream' is as a global movement designed to promote and protect the core values of sports for youth at a global level.
Hammadi said,"The purpose of this MoU is to work together to utilise sport in the best interest of humanity. Sport is a major aspect of modern life and a pillar of sustainable peace around the world. Sport is a universal language that goes beyond geographic, political and cultural boundaries. It bridges gaps between nations and enhances health, dedication, fair competition and sportsmanship."
He wished the best of luck for this agreement, which goes in line with Qatar National Vision 2030.
"We will contribute our 40 years of charitable, social and humanitarian experience in Qatar and internationally," he said.
Hanzab said,"We are proud to enter into this partnership to support the important work QRCS carries out in protecting life where most needed, protecting the forgotten and the most vulnerable ones."
He added,"Based on our strong commitment to the unique power of sports in bringing people together and achieving sustainable development as an effective means for improving the lives of local communities, we are pleased to offer our expertise to the areas of health and social integration.
"Through 'Save the Dream', we use the power of sports to reach and involve children and young people, including those with special needs, and work to facilitate their access to the aid provided by the QRCS."