afp
Wevelgem, Belgium
World champion Peter Sagan clinched a bunch sprint to win the one-day classic Gent-Wevelgem on Sunday, attacking early when noticing his main rival Elia Viviani was boxed in.
The Bora rider timed his attack to perfection with 200m of the 251km race remaining and only Frenchman Arnaud Demare could go with him with Viviani getting free and launching a desperate but thrilling late attack.
The Italian overtook Demare but it was too late to catch Sagan, who maintained his burst for the line.
"It was a complicated sprint, its always a bit of a lottery," the 28-year-old Sagan told reporters after the race.
"I started early and in the end it was good. I had the legs to hold the lead."
Belgian outfit Quick-Step laid down a marker on Friday in the E3 Harelbeke semi-classic with a dominant team performance that propelled Dutchman Niki Terpstra to a breakaway victory.
But on Sunday their rider, second-placed Viviani, sat down on the floor and cried in frustration after getting boxed in.
FDJ's in-form Demare was on the podium again after his runner-up spot at the Milan-San Remo last week.
It was a record-equalling third win here for Sagan, joining five other men including Eddy Merckx and Mario Cipollini in achieving the feat.
"This was easy," Sagan told a surprised reporter."Because of the lack of wind, nothing crazy like three years ago. it was a very fast race.
"There wasn't much wind so there was a big group of us, otherwise the group would have been smaller."
Valverde seals third Tour of Catalonia
Spain's Alejandro Valverde clinched his third title at the Tour of Catalonia on Sunday despite Britain's Simon Yates winning the seventh and final stage after a late breakaway.
Movistar's Valverde posted a total time of 28 hours, 25 minutes and 7 seconds in Barcelona to add to his 2009 and 2017 successes in the event at age 37.
"I did not even expect to feel this good," Valverde said."I think I can say I'm in better shape than last year."
Valverde's Movistar team-mate Colombian Nairo Quintana finished 29 seconds behind in the overall standings and Frenchman Pierre Latour of AG2R ended 47 seconds back in third.
Latour snuck in after Egan Bernal of Team Sky, who had started the final day in second, was denied a place on the podium by a dramatic late fall.
Bernal crashed heavily with only six kilometres left as Yates of Mitchelton-Scott finished first on the day, ahead of Spaniard Marc Soler and Latour.
On Bernal's fall, Valverde said:"In the end it is a real shame because the lad was doing well."
Yates, whose victory earned him fourth place overall, said:"It was very difficult and very fast at the beginning. I wasn't sure if I could match the really fast guys here so I decided to go early and it paid off."