DPA
Berlin
A date between Germany and Brazil four years after their famous World Cup semi-final stands out when teams heading to this year's edition in Russia all but complete their experimenting on Tuesday.
The day marks the last international friendlies slot before the 32 finalists announce their provisional squads for the June 14-July 15 tournament in May - with the final 23-player line-ups having to be submitted by June 3.
Germany are the title holders and Brazil record five-time champions as both aim for a good result in Berlin - especially the Selecao which wants to perform better than in the famous 7-1 meltdown in Belo Horizonte four years ago.
Both sides are considered among the favourites, and so are 2010 champions Spain and 2014 runners-up Argentina who meet in Madrid. France are also fancied as they visit hosts Russia aiming to rebound from a surprise 3-2 defeat against Colombia, while England take on Italy who failed to qualify.
Brazil have recovered from the national shame in the two years since Tite has been in charge as coach, and Friday's 3-0 victory in Moscow underlined that they have to be a force to be reckoned with in summer.
Tite named it emotionally important for the players to meet Germany again but insisted the 2014 game was a matter of the past and Brazil ready to deliver."Against Germany, we will want to play football, to be competitive, mentally strong, and put an idea in play. We are looking to impose our way of playing," he said.
Brazil miss superstar Neymar over his foot fracture while Germany coach Joachim Loew is resting playmaker Mesut Oezil and forward Thomas Mueller.
Instead, the Manchester City duo of Ilkay Guendogan and Leroy Sane will start as holding midfielder and on the left wing respectively, and Hertha Berlin left back Marvin Plattenhardt will also start in his home stadium.
No German expects another walk in the park as midfielder Toni Kroos said"I consider Brazil two levels better than in 2014" and defender Jerome Boateng added:"Brazil are of the same calibre as Spain, maybe with a little more attacking power."
Germany have drawn their last three matches - the others being in November against England and France - and are looking for national record-equalling 23rd game without defeat.
Spain were as happy as Germany with their classy draw in Dusseldorf Friday and now run into Argentina whose Lionel Messi and Sergio Aguero could play in Madrid after being rested in a 2-0 against Italy.
Unbeaten in the 17 games since taking charge two years ago, Spain coach Jul'f6en Lopetegui will likely experiement a little more while midfielder David Silva has been released"for personal reasons", according to a federation tweet.
Other changes could include the absence of Barcelona pair Gerard Pique and Andres Iniesta who were both taken off against Germany.
Despite Valencia striker Rodrigo Moreno's fine performance in that game, Diego Costa could be asked to lead the line at his Atletico Madrid home stadium.~
Anoher home starter could be Saul Niguez, who said Sunday that"this is a time to be very excited about the national team."
England manager Gareth Southgate is expected to make several changes~from Friday's win over the Netherlands when England host~Italy at Wembley.
One definitely move will be Jack Butland replacing Jordan Pickford in goal as the search for the World Cup starter continues. Southgate has also hinted at possible for the four uncapped players in the squad: James Tarkowski, Nick Pope, Alfie Mawson and Louis Cook.
"We're trying to build belief in the team," Southgate said."We're trying to build a way of playing."