Reaction after Australia captain Steve Smith confessed that the team's"leadership group"had hatched a plan to alter the condition of the ball during the third day of the third test against South Africa.
"Shocked and bitterly disappointed by the news from South Africa. It seemed completely beyond belief that the Australian cricket team had been involved in cheating. Our cricketers are role models and cricket is synonymous with fair play. How can our team be engaged in cheating like this? It beggars belief."
MALCOLM TURNBULL, Prime Minister of Australia
"To our Australian cricket fans. We are sorry. We are sorry that you had to wake up this morning to the news ... that our Australian men's cricket team and our captain admitted to conduct that is outside both the laws of our game and spirit of cricket.
"This behaviour calls into question the integrity of the team and Cricket Australia... we share your anger and disappointment.
"Cricket Australia and Australian cricket fans expect certain standards of conduct from cricketers representing our country, and on this occasion these standards have not been met."
JAMES SUTHERLAND, Cricket Australia chief
"The decision made by the leadership group of the Australian team to act in this way is clearly contrary to the spirit of the game, risks causing significant damage to the integrity of the match, the players and the sport itself and is therefore 'serious'in nature."
DAVID RICHARDSON, International Cricket Council chief executive
"It's a terrible day for Australian cricket. I can't believe the leadership group have got a young kid playing in his eighth test match to do this."
MICHAEL CLARKE, former Australia captain
"Australian cricket is the laughing stock of the sporting world."
ADAM GILCHRIST, former Australia wicketkeeper
"Disappointed in Steve Smith as captain to go out there and do that. To me it was unAustralian. I don't care who you are you can't tamper with the ball."
SHANE WARNE, former Australia spinner
"I'm shocked at what's gone on. I've never seen anything as blatant as that."
OTTIS GIBSON, South Africa coach
"You've got to ask some tough questions of Steve Smith and (Australia coach) Darren Lehmann. They've obviously driven this process, they're the leadership."
GRAEME SMITH, former South Africa captain
"They are in crisis. This certainly will not be the end of it. There will be consequences for senior members of the team."
MICHAEL ATHERTON, former England captain
"I would be very surprised if everyone in the dressing room didn't know what was going on. They were so naive to get caught."
BOB WILLIS, former England paceman
"Disgraceful behaviour by senior pros."
MICHAEL VAUGHAN, former England captain
"Oh no! Bancroft. Very embarrassing. From the looks of it, this is not on. Haven't seen a series marred by controversies like this one in a long long time."
MOHAMMAD KAIF, former India batsman