dpa
Rome
Italy continue their difficult restart after missing the World Cup with a Tuesday friendly in England, who are qualified and tweaking their squad for the event. La Nazionale lost 2-0 to qualified Argentina on Friday, showing no telling improvement after a play-off defeat to Sweden that in November kept them out of the World Cup for the first time in 60 years.
Interim coach Luigi Di Biagio will try to get the most from the few encouraging aspects of his debut game with Argentina.
The team did its best after the break, producing a brisk half hour of pressing, but failing to score, as they did in the past two outings under Gian Piero Ventura, before conceding twice in the last 15 minutes.
"There was some harsh criticism and more justified criticism," said Alessandro Costacurta, a former international who is helping the Azzurri's recovery as vice commissioner of the domestic federation (FIGC).
"But I believe that the match went as well as we could have expected. I liked our game plan, particularly in the second half, until the error that led to their [first] goal.
"I have experienced moments like these and I think it would have been psychologically impossible to approach the first half more effectively after everything that has been said over the last few months."
Criticism hinged on the squad's lack of speed and on lacklustre forwards Lorenzo Insigne and Ciro Immobile, the Serie A top scorer on 24 goals. Many also noted how playmaker Marco Verratti struggled to find his position in midfield.
At Wembley, there should be room for Andrea Belotti up front against an English team which has kept in clean sheet in its last three games and won 1-0 at the Netherlands on Friday.
The 20-year-olds Federico Chiesa and Patrick Cutrone hope for more playing time after their Friday debuts.
Gianluigi Donnarumma, 19, should replace or take turns with veteran Gianluigi Buffon, who at 40 earned the best marks in his 176th appearance.
Beside players' choice and tactics, La Nazionale's fans also follow the federation's search for a new coach, who is to be appointed in May.
Di Biagio, who came from the Azzurri youth team, is among the candidates. Roberto Mancini, Carlo Ancelotti and a possibly returning Antonio Conte are also being considered.