QNA
DOHA
Qatar Red Crescent Society (QRCS) and the International Centre for Sport Security (ICSS) have joined forces, within the framework of its 'Save the Dream,' to strengthen the role of sport in promoting health and access to aid at a global level, as part of a wide-ranging cooperation agreement.
The agreement was signed by ICSS Chairman Mohammed bin Hamad Hanzab and QRCS Secretary-General Ali bin Hassan al Hammadi.
This partnership will see the two exploring cooperation opportunities across a number of projects that aim to maximise sport's vital contribution to enhancing health programmes and facilitating access to aid within most underserved communities.
Launched in 2012 by the ICSS, with support from the Qatar Olympic Committee (QOC) and involvement of international sports figures like Alessandro Del Piero, the 'Save the Dream' is a global movement designed to promote and protect the core values of sports for youth at a global level.
It paves the way as well for the exchange of knowledge and expertise between the two sides, with the aim of initiating various joint awareness and educational activities to support sports community and public health.
Hammadi said,"The purpose of this MoU is to work together to utilise sport in the best interest of humanity. Sport is a major aspect of modern life and a pillar of sustainable peace around the world. Sports is a universal language that goes beyond geographic, political, and cultural boundaries. It bridges gaps between nations and enhances health, dedication, fair competition, and sportsmanship."
Hanzab said,"We are proud to enter into this partnership to support the important work that QRCS carries out protecting life where most needed, protecting the forgotten and the most vulnerable ones."
"Based on our strong commitment to the unique power of sports in bringing people together and achieving sustainable development as an effective means for improving the lives of local communities, we are pleased to offer our expertise to the areas of health and social integration. Through 'Save the Dream,' we use the power of sports to reach and involve children and young people, including those with special needs, and work to facilitate their access to the aid provided by the QRCS,"Hanzab added.