InterContinental Doha The City Participates in Global Earth Hour Movement Posted on Comments 
InterContinental Doha The City proudly participated in the global Earth Hour movement on 24 March 2018 to send a powerful message about a brighter future for the planet and shine a light on climate action in support of Earth Hour 2018. This is the sixth year that the hotel has participated in the initiative. 
From 8:30 pm — 9:30 pm, the lights in the hotel lobby, restaurants, exteriors, and also external signage were switched off in coordination with the worldwide activity. Colleagues of InterContinental Doha The City joined together for a candle lighting activity in the lobby and guests were encouraged to join. Personalised messages were sent to all hotel guests informing them of the event and encouraging their participation, and residents of the hotel’s Residence Suites partook by switching off their lights at home and joining the intimate mocktail reception held in the Lobby Lounge. An approximate of 2,180-kilowatt hours of electricity was saved during the activity. 
Focusing the efforts not just in the hotel, InterContinental Doha The City Team Members also contributed in the colleagues compound and hotel cafeteria where all lights were turned off while team members gathered around together. 
Other than Earth Hour, InterContinental Doha The City constantly works to give back to the environment in various ways. Aligned with the global initiative of IHG (InterContinental® Hotels Group), the hotel has heavily been involved with the IHG Green Engage global programme, an industry-leading approach to environmental management and the first hotel specific system of its kind. 
While the group target of the initiative is 1% of the reduction of carbon footprints, the Doha property has managed to achieve 9% in the last year alone as they have greatly reduced our negative impact on the environment and have achieved Level 4 of the IHG® Green Engage, making InterContinental Doha The City a leader in this initiative. 
Perfectly situated in the exclusive West Bay area, close to all the major areas of interest, the stylish and modern Intercontinental® Doha The City stands tall amidst the action of the city. The hotel offers 349 luxury guest rooms and suites, as well as 176 residence suites offering various layouts consisting of one to four bedrooms. 
InterContinental® Doha The City is located in the heart of the city within the financial and diplomatic districts. It is only five minutes from the Doha Exhibition and Convention Centre and 20 minutes from Hamad International Airport. With its close proximity to Doha Golf Club, Souq Waqif, Katara Cultural Village and major shopping malls, InterContinental® Doha The City is the perfect place for short- or long-term guests to enjoy business or leisure stays. 
For more information on how to participate in Earth Hour, visit EarthHour.org . 
For more information on, or to keep up to date with the InterContinental® Doha The City latest offerings click here .