Comments 
Two prominent academic institutions in Qatar and Turkey, Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU) and Ibn Haldun University (IHU), signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) at a ceremony in Istanbul recently, with both institutions agreeing to cooperate on graduate-level education and on joint research, publications, specialist area projects, and language programmes. The agreement also creates a scope for HBKU and IHU to jointly organise symposia, seminars and conferences. 
In a ceremony attended by staff and faculty, HBKU President Dr Ahmad M Hasnah and IHU President Dr Recep Şentürk, signed the agreement in the presence of members of Turkey’s greater academic community, guests and media personnel. 
Speaking at the signing ceremony, Dr Hasnah said that meaningful collaborations with institutions that share common goals are integral to what they do at HBKU. 
This partnership with IHU aims to provide scholars at both institutions with a platform to share knowledge and expertise, which will help them tackle the challenges that face modern societies at the political, social and economic levels. It will also give students the opportunity to study and examine these issues within a dynamic environment, as well as benefit immensely from different educational set ups.’ 
Dr Şentürk meanwhile said that they welcomed the landmark cooperation, given the shared strategic focus and inherent potential of the partnership. 
Ibn Haldun University is committed to furthering its ties with HBKU as we go from success to more success, given our ideals of excellence and impact. I look forward to seeing the fruits of our cooperation, as we share the same purpose of striving to do more for our societies and to realise new paradigms of possibility for our nations and fields of knowledge.’ 
As part of the new agreement, the HBKU College of Islamic Studies (CIS) and College of Humanities and Social Sciences (CHSS) will cooperate with IHU on various aspects of their masteral programme. 
The agreement also involves student exchange across relevant programmes and information. The two institutions will facilitate visiting researchers and collaborate on projects in the interest of developing an enhanced understanding of Islamic finance, applied ethics, disciplines of digital humanities, literature, gender studies, and leadership development programs. Both universities will also establish multidisciplinary summer programmes to create a reciprocal relationship of co-teaching, co-supervising and rotational visits. 
And lastly, in a bid to foster an enhanced understanding of each other’s cultures, the two will collaborate on aspects of Ottoman history, Middle East and North Africa (MENA) studies, and Gulf studies. HBKU and IHU will aim to make Arabic and Turkish language schools available to students and language specialists in both their campuses. The agreement comes as the latest in a series of academic and research partnerships that HBKU has signed recently. 
For more updates and information about HBKU, visit their website at hbku.edu.qa .