Comments More than 20,000 enthusiastic spectators surrounded the Lake in Aspire Park on the evening of 23 March to watch the spectacular fireworks performances of the 2 nd Aspire Lake Festival ‘Magical Journey’, directed by French artist Christophe Berthonneau. The event was organised by Aspire Zone Foundation (AZF), in partnership with Ooredoo, Qatar Airways, the Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy and Katara. The Aspire Lake turned into a 3D spectacle showcased in front of more than 20,000 visitors. Some of the attendees described the show as one of the best they’ve ever seen. The performance told the story of a young Arab man who embarked on a journey to roam the oceans in search of a legendary pearl. He hoped the journey will help him find the secret to happiness and peace. To get to his destination, the young man, who started his magical journey from Qatar, travelled the world and overcame many obstacles such as the Chinese Dragon, mythical monsters of the African Savanna, and the giant anaconda snakes told in Amazonian folklore. After fighting many battles, the young man found that the secret to happiness and peace was in Doha all long. The 40-minute remarkable performances were the ideal blend between two of the Earth’s contrasting elements, water and fire. The fireworks displayed were perfectly timed to match the tone of music that accompanied the show. Speaking about the show’s enormous success, French fireworks art wizard and director Christophe Berthonneau, said: I’ve been working with my group for a very long time, and we grew up working with street art. In street art, you don’t have that much money so you have to be clever and inventive. You learn that you have to focus your artistic direction only on one line so you can control the details. The huge complexity of this kind of event is to create the right balance of light, to make the miracle happen. [The show] won’t be nice if the fireworks are too bright and the lights are too low. You need to have elegance and beauty in your story.’ ‘We display our art all around the world, but we only do original shows. We don’t want to do the same show every time. So, when we came to Qatar, we didn’t think we’re doing a Qatari show, but that we’re doing a show for Qatar.’ Some of Berthonneau’s most notable work was displayed at the closing ceremony of the 1998 FIFA World Cup France™, the opening and closing ceremonies of the Athens 2004, Turin 2006, and the Rio 2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games, and the 2011 AFC Asian Cup in Qatar. He also played a part in the inauguration of the Museum of Islamic Art in Doha 2008. Speaking about his expectations for the 2022 FIFA World Cup Qatar™, Berthonneau added that when working for a ceremony, the system is on a much larger scale because the director is addressing six billion people so each [ceremony] has to be very precise. He also noted that the director must adhere to the rules and guidelines set by the organisers, so the show will depend on what FIFA and the Qatari authorities have in mind. Berthonneau has been studying the influence of Arabic culture and Andalusia and he believes the Arabic culture could inspire a poetic ceremony in the coming years. AZF organises such internationally acclaimed events at its world-class indoor and outdoor facilities, as part of its commitment to support Qatar’s sports and entertainment sectors. Through its events, AZF seeks to engage with as many community members as possible and encourage them to go out with their friends and family to enjoy the outdoors and Qatar’s lovely weather at this time of the year.