Comments The three-month long campaign ended with a draw for winners of six luxury cars and two motorbikes 
United Development Company (UDC), a leading Qatari shareholding company and master developer of The Pearl-Qatar , has wrapped up a shopping campaign it launched last year with a raffle draw. UDC senior representatives attended the draw event along with officials from the Ministry of Economy and Commerce and representatives of shopping and dining outlets at The Pearl. 
The draw, which took place amidst a crowd of shoppers and onlookers, is the first of its kind to be organised by UDC, targeting visitors and residents of the island who shopped at any of the outlets or dined in any one of its restaurants over the past three months. They were awarded tickets to participate in the raffle draw after presenting the original purchase invoices at concierge desks located in Porto Arabia , Qanat Quartier and Medina Centrale . 
The island will be hosting more events to promote its shopping hub and The Pearl-Qatar as a destination for families and tourists alike. 
Owners of retail outlets from across The Pearl-Qatar said the campaign has contributed to an increase in the number of shoppers, which reflected positively on their sales. They thanked UDC for its efforts, adding that they looked forward to working with the company to attract more visitors through various events on the island. 
UDC’s latest shopping campaign coincided with the recent Qanat Quartier Carnival , which attracted large crowds of visitors and their families. 
Recently, the island also hosted the fifth edition of the Qatar International Boat Show , which brought together more than 70 exhibitors and at least 15,000 visitors. 
These events underscore the attractiveness of the retail sector at The Pearl-Qatar, and the success of UDC in providing support for the sector and promoting the country as a leading tourist destination, contributing to efforts to diversify the economy in line with Qatar National Vision 2030. 
For more information and updates about UDC, visit their website at udcqatar.com .