Mövenpick Hotel West Bay Doha Celebrates Earth Hour 2018 Posted on Comments 
Mövenpick Hotel West Bay Doha celebrated Earth Hour with 60 minutes of darkness in the hotel’s lobby level with the theme ‘Connect2Earth’, on Saturday, 24 March with the participation of its employees and guests. 
To celebrate this momentous occasion, the Gold Green Globe certified hotel turned off all unnecessary lights and lit candles in solidarity to conserve energy as part of the annual global effort and to reduce the effects of climate change. 
During the evening, the lobby at Mövenpick Hotel West Bay Doha featured a ‘Connect2Earth’ area with pillars made from recycled wood and other materials, as a symbol of sustainability. Hotel employees gathered to light candles and commemorated this special evening to celebrate the diversity of life on earth. 
As the property turned off its lights from 8:30 pm to 9:30 pm, the hotel invited guests to stand for sustainability and enjoy complimentary snacks and beverages with members of the management team. The hotel also announced a week-long recycling initiative to encourage all employees to recycle at home as well, to truly embody the aspect of sustainability. 
Ghada Sadek, General Manager of Mövenpick Hotel West Bay Doha, said: 
This symbolic event gives people from around the world an opportunity to show their support for global climate change. Switching off the lights for an hour, and involving both staff and guests, makes a small contribution as part of a larger effort and significant impact on this planet. We are committed to continuously maintaining an effective environmental management policy for the preservation of a healthy environment for future generations.’ 
One of the key goals of the hotel is to promote and create awareness around sustainability and environmentally-friendly living while creating a culture and promoting an attitude towards recycling and energy conservation throughout the hotel’s basic daily operations. 
For more information on, or to keep up to date with the Mövenpick Hotel West Bay Doha latest offerings click here .