Report by Catherine W Gichuki
At the just-concluded Qatar International Food Festival, one would have been forgiven to think one had been transported to Ethiopia, as the aroma of the country's coffee wafted across from far. The coffee was being brewed at the Ethiopian Embassy pavilion at the Hotel Park, the site of the 9th QIFF organised by Qatar Tourism Authority.
The pavilion took visitors through the process of brewing coffee and how the beverage was discovered in Ethiopia. The whole process of brewing coffee takes about 45 minutes as the guests watch while taking in the aroma of roasted coffee. Women dressed in traditional attire stirred a pan of beans over the flame, even as curls of incense-stick smoke wafted across the stall.
The Arabica coffee which originated in Ethiopia was showcased, making the festival an excellent platform to highlight the country's culture and traditions.
In addition, people could learn a bit of the Amharic language through displays on the pavilion's wall.
Visitors from all walks of life thronged the stand to have a taste of the coffee which was being offered in the country's traditional manner. From the seats to the utensils, to the ambience, all depicted Ethiopian cultural heritage.
On a different side of the park, Ethiopian dances and music took centrestage. The performers entertained the audience with their unique dance styles and moves.
Ethiopian Ambassador to Qatar HE Metasebia Tadesse Woldegiorgis said that they were displaying how the Ethiopian coffee ceremony was conducted at home."In Ethiopia, coffee is a big ceremony in a family. Coffee is a gift of Ethiopia to the world. Coffee originated in Ethiopia and it went out to the whole world."
The ambassador pointed to the display in the pavilion about the history of how coffee was discovered in Ethiopia and went to each household.
"The way the ladies are preparing the coffee is how we do it in every household, especially women in the house prepare the coffee."
The ambassador said,"The coffee ceremony is a means of social gathering. Once they sit down, they discuss about their family, society and different issues while having coffee. The whole coffee ceremony can probably take from 30 minutes to an hour, and at that time, the family will have a discussion.".
Teferai, a participant at the Ethiopian pavilion, said that QIFF has been a historic event for them for they are able to showcase what Ethiopia has to offer."We are showcasing 100 percent Ethiopian Arabica coffee beans to people. People from different nationalities are visiting our pavilion to see the coffee. Ethiopian coffee is very popular all over the world."
Daniel from the Ethiopian community said that the music and dance staged during the festival was from different parts of the country.
Patti from Washington DC said,"We came here the other day and tasted the coffee and we decided to come back again to buy the coffee beans so that we can make at home. The coffee is really nice. It is not bitter."
Jody, another visitor from Washington DC said,"We visited the pavilion the other day and we loved it. We came back to buy the whole set including the burner so that we can make the coffee at home."
Hugo from Portugal said,"The coffee is really good. It was my first taste of the Ethiopian coffee".
"I love its aroma," said Ines, also from Portugal.
Denise from Uganda said that she learned a lot about Ethiopia through the thrilling performances."I liked the performance. The performers put a lot of energy into the performance. It was really entertaining."
Sharon, a Kenyan, said that she enjoyed learning about Ethiopian culture through the coffee and performances.
Another visitor praised the organisers of the festival saying that it gave them an opportunity to learn about other cultures.