Tribune News Network
Doha
SIDRA Medicine, a specialty children's, young people and women's healthcare organisation and member of Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development (QF), announced a new schedule for its ongoing series of educational workshops, this time focusing on child-safety tips both at home and on the road.
The free workshops offer the local community a chance to speak with Sidra Medicine experts, ask questions, and connect with other parents and families in the country. The sessions are part of Sidra Medicine's Child Safety and Injury Prevention Program.
The program was launched in March 12, 2018, and aims to educate participants about essential child-safety tips, from ensuring their ride home from the hospital is a safe one to preventing burn injuries in all areas of the home.
Aziza Mahamoud, manager of the health promotion division and organiser of the workshops, said:"Sidra Medicine aims to become a beacon of knowledge and discovery. Thus, community engagement and education is core to the way we operate. Not only are we committed to providing quality education and training to affiliated medical students and staff, but we are also dedicated to giving women, children and families in the community the knowledge and skills they need to protect and improve their health and well-being."
To date, Sidra Medicine has organised four workshops for both patients and community members, giving them the necessary knowledge to handle real-life safety situations. The upcoming child car seat safety workshops will be held on April 2 and May 2, while the home safety workshops will be held on April 16 and May 7. All workshops will be held at the Patient Resource Center in the Outpatient Clinic at Sidra Medicine, with the English-language workshops taking place from 10am to 11am and the Arabic language ones from 3pm to 4pm.
All workshops are free and open to the public and those interested can register by emailing to healthpromotion@sidra.org or calling +974 4003 6277.