afp
Harare
West Indies coach Stuart Law praised captain Jason Holder's bowling display, after his team chased down 290 to beat Zimbabwe by four wickets on Monday and move to within one win of sealing a place at next year's World Cup.
The home side were indebted to Brendan Taylor's 10th one-day international hundred as they managed 289 all out from their 50 overs in Harare, but fifties from Evin Lewis, Shai Hope and Marlon Samuels helped the Windies over the line despite a late collapse.
Law pointed towards Holder's four wickets as the difference between Zimbabwe posting a score out of reach and limiting them to below 300 in the crucial qualifying encounter.
"Jason Holder, for the whole game, was outstanding," said Law.
"To only go for 35 runs in his 10, with a total of 290, is outstanding. And also picking up four wickets.
"At one stage with Brendan Taylor there, Zimbabwe looked like getting 320, 330, 340. Our fielding was very good as well. The energy we showed was outstanding."
The two-time World Cup winners are now top of the Super Six table ahead of their final match against Scotland on Wednesday, when victory would secure one of the two remaining places for next year's tournament in England and Wales.
"In a sense this next game is another final," added Law.
"We've shown signs that we're a very good cricket team, and we've got one more chance to show the world that we can do it. I'm very happy with where we are, we've only lost one game in the competition so far."
Zimbabwe's fate is also still in their hands despite a first loss of the competition, as victory over the United Arab Emirates on Thursday would still secure qualification.
"We need to put our hands up and continue our form," said Taylor.
"Because we have been good. We've just had one slip-up today. We're certainly not taking anyone for granted. We have to win on Thursday.
"The side that wins on Wednesday, they go through. We can't worry about them. We have to worry about what we do on Thursday. There you have it, that's your final. It's clear-cut."
Scores
Zimbabwe 289 all out in 50 overs (Brendan Taylor 138; Jason Holder 4-35, Kemar Roach 3-55) v West Indies 290-6 in 49 overs (Marlon Samuels 86, Shai Hope 76, Evin Lewis 64) -- West Indies won by four wickets