Tribune News Network
Doha
Senior officials from the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC), one of the world's leading and fastest growing onshore business and financial centres, took part in the seventh Uludag Economy Summit held in Uludag, Turkey on March 23 and 24.
The meeting, organised by Capital and Ekonomist magazines, brought together more than 1,300 delegates from around the world to discuss global and local economic issues.
Qatar and Turkey have long enjoyed a strong business relationship, and Turkey is a key target market for the QFC's strategic diversification plans. Qatar has announced that it will be investing $19 billion in Turkey in 2018.
Sheikha Alanoud Bint Hamad al Thani, Managing Director, Business Development, QFC Authority, said,"The Uludag Economy Summit is a valuable opportunity to discuss economic opportunities and challenges with business leaders from around the world, and from Turkey in particular."
More than 200 Turkish companies are already operating in Qatar, she said, adding:"We hope that number will continue to grow thanks to our countries' strong ties, which are demonstrated by this summit."
The summit was also attended by leading government and business officials, including Turkey's Deputy Prime Minister Mehmet Simsek, Minister of Energy and Natural Resources Berat Albayrak, Turkish Central Bank Governor Murat 'c7etinkaya and Turkish Treasury Undersecretary Osman 'c7elik.
The QFC's participation comes as part of its continued efforts to promote Qatar as a lucrative destination for companies looking to expand their operations into the Middle East and tap into Qatar's multibillion dollar infrastructure programme.
Qatar and Turkey have always shared strategic relations in many areas of cooperation, built upon a strong and friendly historical relationship.
Trade relations continue to grow; in the first quarter of 2017 Turkish companies undertook 128 projects totalling $14.2 billion in Qatar.
It was recently announced that Qatar will invest $19 billion in Turkey in 2018.
The bilateral trade volume between Qatar and Turkey stood at $834.5 million in 2016 and $634 million in the first eight months of 2017.