Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Red Crescent Society (QRCS) has concluded its public exhibition held at Katara Corniche in commemoration of the organisation's 40th anniversary.
Over five consecutive days, the event attracted as many as 5,000 visitors.
It proved a huge success, said Noora Rashid al Dosari, Executive Director, Volunteering and Local Development Division, QRCS, who commended the hard work of the 30 volunteers running the exhibition from 9am to 9pm. She thanked the management of Katara Cultural Village for hosting this exhibition, which materialised the fruitful bilateral cooperation in social, humanitarian and cultural activities of common interest.
The exhibition involved sections for volunteering, photo gallery, kids area and health education. It displayed the equipment and resources used in the fields of relief, shelter, water and sanitation and emergency medical care.
The gallery gave a pictorial timeline of QRCS's history from 1978 till the present day, explained Hassan al Abbasi, a volunteer who took part in the exhibition."We gave the visitors an overview of QRCS's volunteering opportunities, for the youth to serve their own community. Now, recruited volunteers can register online," he said.
Student groups visited the exhibition from Nasser Bin Abdullah Al Attia Secondary School, Abdullah Bin Rawaha Primary School, Al Yarmouk Preparatory School, Qatar Technical Secondary School, the Egyptian Language School and the Tunisian School.
Sahim al Abdullah, volunteer and member of QRCS's Risk Reduction Team, introduced the visitors to Kit 5, water and sanitation system deployed to disaster zones to store, purify and distribute water to as many as 5,000 beneficiaries per day.
In the shelter sector, Fatima al Mohannadi said,"QRCS has family-size tents that accommodate 4-6 persons, as well as non-food items such as kitchenware kits, hygiene kits, blankets, tarpaulins and house repair toolkits."
Dr Hassan al-Yafi, Executive Director, Medical Affairs Division, QRCS, said,"The largest in the MENA region, our field hospital is a 50-bed mobile health facility that comprises a set of tents, medical and nonmedical equipment, and well-trained personnel. It can be deployed within a few hours to provide emergency medical care for the affected populations. It can serve up to 800 patients per day and can be used to support other health facilities."
In the health education section, the visitors received practical information on first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). QRCS's medics also offered blood sugar and pressure tests for free.