Satyendra Pathak
Doha
More than 90 percent of the QR60 billion contracts expected to be announced by 57 government entities this year is likely to be awarded to local firms, a senior official of the Ministry of Finance said on Monday.
"The local companies have the potential to account for more than 90 percent of the total contracts. All they need to do is to register and get certified with the ministry through the Moushtarayat website and network with the 57 government entities that award contracts," Abdulaziz Zeid Rashid al Taleb, Director of Government Procurement Regulations at the Ministry of Finance, told Qatar Tribune on the sidelines of a press conference to announce the third Government Procurement and Contracting Conference & Exhibition (Moushtarayat) to be held in April.
"While almost 2,500 local suppliers are already registered and certified by the Ministry of Finance to bid for government tenders, we encourage the remaining local companies to register with us and take advantage of the huge business opportunities available for them in the country," he said.
The share of local companies in the total contracts worth QR60 billion awarded in 2017 was more than 70 percent, Taleb said.
Providing further details about contracts awarded to local companies since the last Moushtarayat in April up until now, Taleb said of the total QR41.3 billion contracts announced during the period, contracts worth QR28.7 billion (almost 70 percent) were awarded to local suppliers.
Taleb said the ministry is undertaking various initiatives to enable more companies to participate in government projects.
The international suppliers, who account for 30 percent of the total contracts, are mainly active in the constriction sector.
In a bid to enhance the participation of local suppliers in the constriction sector, Taleb said, the ministry would encourage international suppliers to work in partnership with Qatari firms.
Citing Moushtarayat website as one of its kind in the world, he said, it is specially designed for local companies to easily access and bid for government tenders.
Taleb said the ministry will ensure that all the certified local suppliers get business."If they are not getting any business, they can come to us. We will raise their concern to the end users," he said.