QNA
Moscow
The Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani and Russian President Vladimir Putin on Monday discussed ways to strengthen bilateral relations in several fields, including defence, energy, economy, investment, trade exchange and scientific research.
They discussed means to boost cooperation and exchange of expertise in the organisation of the World Cups in Russia in 2018 and Qatar in 2022.
The Emir and Putin discussed various regional and international issues of common concern.
At the outset of their meeting at the Kremlin Palace, the Russian president welcomed the Emir, noting the development of relations between the two countries since the last visit of the Emir to Moscow in 2016.
Stressing that communication between the two countries is a continuous process, Putin said,"The relations between Qatar and Russia have completed their 30th year by 2018... The volume of trade and investment exchange is increasing, especially last year, and we look forward to its development."
For his part, the Emir affirmed that the bilateral relations have developed significantly over the past two years since the last meeting with the Russian president.
Even though there are strong relations and mutual trust between the two sides, the two countries' ambitions for cooperation are greater than ever before, the Emir added.
The Emir stressed the need to achieve an increase in the volume of trade exchange.
The Emir pointed out the importance of 2018 for Qatar and Russia as it was their common cultural year and lauded the great cooperation between the two countries in the field of culture.
The Emir said Qatar is counting on Russian friends, with whom it has a cooperative relationship, knowing that Russia plays a significant role in resolving some issues in the Arab world.
The Emir offered condolences to the Russian president and people on the victims of the shopping mall fire in Kemerovo city, wishing the wounded a speedy recovery.
The Emir and the Russian President witnessed the signing of cooperation agreement in the field of science and education between Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development (QF) and Rosneft, which aims to open a research centre for Rosneft at the Qatar Science and Technology Park.
The Emir and Putin also discussed the outcome of the work of the Qatari-Russian joint committee for trade, economic and technical cooperation and the prospects of enhancing them, as well as ways to develop military cooperation between the two countries.
Earlier, the Emir visited the Russian national museum for fine art (Tretyakov Gallery). The Emir was briefed on a number of historic and contemporary works as well as paintings by Russian artists. The Emir was also briefed on the museum's historic collections and art works.