Tribune News Network
Doha
UNDER the patronage of HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani, Prime Minister and Minister of Interior, Qatar University (QU) on Monday hosted the ceremony to launch the 6th edition of Qatar CSR Report and the second CSR exhibition under the theme 'Citizenship'.
During the ceremony, HE Sheikh Ahmed bin Jassim bin Mohammed al Thani, Minister of Economy and Commerce, was honoured as CSR Person of the Year 2017 in recognition of the ministry's role in launching innovative initiatives that enhanced the national economy and supported the country's efforts towards ensuring the welfare of its citizens and residents. CSR experts Buthaina al Ansari, Sheikha Sara al Thani and Dana al Anzy received the CSR Innovation Award. Leading companies and community representatives who are leaders in CSR were also honoured.
The ceremony was attended by Sheikh Ahmed, QU President Dr Hassan al Derham, Ambassador of India to Qatar HE P. Kumaran, Ambassador of South Korea to Qatar HE Heung Kyeong Park, Ambassador of Spain to Qatar HE Ignacio Escobar and QU CSR Committee Head Dr Bader al Esmael, as well as QU leadership, deans, department heads, faculty and staff.
The report, which is issued by QU in partnership with Qatar CSR Network, is supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Qatar Media Corporation and Qatar Post. It is part of a Memorandum of Understanding signed between QU and Qatar CSR Network. It documents the achievements of national organisations in CSR, and monitors progress in social development and Qatar National Vision 2030. This year's edition focuses on the efforts and achievements of local corporations and their success in overcoming the blockade.
A number of leading organisations supported and contributed to the report Al Faisal Holding, Al Khalij Commercial Bank (al khaliji), Astad, Asthma Qatar Network, Baladna, Commercial Bank, Contraco WLL, Dlala Holding, EBLA Corp, embassies of India, Spain and South Korea, Es'hailSat, Hamad Medical Corporation, KPMG, Manateq, MH Al Mana Group, Ministry of Economy and Commerce, Oxy Qatar, Primary Health Care Corporation, Public Works Authority (Ashghal), Qatar Cool, Qatar Financial Centre Regulatory Authority, Qatar International Islamic Bank, Qatar Primary Materials Company, Sahtak Awalan, Sasol, Seib Insurance, Sharq Law Firm, Spirit of Qatar and United Development Company.
The award ceremony also featured the unveiling of a painted picture of the person of the year by a reputable painter to be held permanently at a dedicated place on the QU campus in addition to granting a trophy and a certificate made of fine wood.
The event also included the second CSR exhibition during which visitors and students interacted with representatives of the public and private sectors.
In his remarks, Sheikh Ahmed hailed the initiative as a tribute to the solidarity and efforts exerted by all state agencies and institutions in order to consolidate and cement the concept of social responsibility in accordance with the wise directives of the Emir His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani.