Asif Iqbal
Doha
Qatar International Islamic Bank (QIIB) is planning to tap the international debt market yet again and is set to host road shows in several Asian countries to gauge the appetite of investors, a top bank official has said.
"We are planning to go to countries such as Singapore and Hong Kong next month to see what size of sukuks would be viable at this juncture given the high-interest rates and volatile market conditions," Chief Executive Officer Abdulbasit Ahmad al Shaibei told reporters on the sidelines of the bank's annual general meeting on Monday.
According to Shaibei, the planned road shows will be a testing ground to understand the appetite for sukuks and based on it the bank will decide on the size and tenure of it (sukuks). He said the bank is looking to issue sukuks between $300 million and $500 million with a tenure of 3-5 years.
The QIIB CEO said though the borrowing costs are high, it would make sense to issue the sukuks this year as there are forecasts that interest rates are expected go higher next year.
Shaibei further said that the sukuks will be a part of the bank's existing $2 billion sukuk programme."Our earlier sukuk of $700 million, issued in 2012 matured in 2017 and therefore we are now looking at another Sukuk," Shaibei added.
Earlier, addressing shareholders, Vice-Chairman Sheikh Abdullah bin Thani said despite the challenges of 2017, the bank had been able to achieve growth in the most important financial indicators such as financial, deposits and assets portfolios, among others, thus helping the bank maintain its high ratings assigned to it by global credit rating agencies.
Regarding the bank's overseas expansion plans, Sheikh Abdullah said,"With regard to the overseas expansion, we meticulously examine any available opportunity and conduct feasibility studies especially in terms of risks."
He said QIIB was able to open the first Islamic bank in Morocco in partnership with local partners after receiving all the required licences for Islamic banking activities.
"We named the new entity, Umnia Bank and we expect this investment to achieve good results and returns based on detailed studies conducted on the Moroccan market's needs for Islamic banks and Shariah-compliant financing," Sheikh Abdullah told shareholders.
Later at the AGM, shareholders approved the board's recommendation to extend previous year's general assembly approval to issue additional Tier1 sukuk non-convertible into an ordinary shares up to QR3 billion (QR1 billion issued during 2016).
The shareholders also gave their approval to distribute 40 percent of the bank capital as cash dividends (QR4 per share).
The AGM also saw shareholders approve the board recommendation to extend previous year's general assembly approval to establish up to $2 billion sukuk programme.