Tribune News Network
DOHA
QATAR Airways (QA) will further strengthen its ties with Russia through a five-year partnership with the forthcoming Cosmoscow International Contemporary Art Fair, which commences from September this year, during the widely celebrated Year of Culture between Russia and Qatar, the airline has announced.
At a press conference attended by international media at the St Regis Hotel in Moscow on Monday, Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar al Baker highlighted the benefits that the five-year partnership will bring.
A letter of intention between Cosmoscow and QA was signed by Baker and the Founding Director of Cosmoscow International Contemporary Art Fair Margarita Pushkina in the presence of Qatar's Minister of Culture and Sports HE Salah bin Ghanem bin Nasser al Ali.
The Cosmoscow Fair unites the contemporary Russian art market and helps its contributors establish contacts with the international art community. QA is widely known for celebrating arts, with its home and hub Hamad International Airport featuring inspiring installations such as the symbolic Lamp Bear by Swiss artist Urs Fischer, through to the more recent installation by American pop artist and designer KAWS.
Baker commented:"Qatar Airways celebrates strong links with Russia with triple daily flights to Moscow and daily flights to St Petersburg from our home and hub Hamad International Airport. During this widely celebrated Year of Culture between Russia and Qatar, I am delighted to further strengthen our ties with this partnership, highlighting our countries' belief in the importance of art as a means of bringing people together."
Ambassador of Qatar to the Russian Federation HE Fahad bin Mohammed al Attiyah said:"During the Year of Culture between Russia and Qatar,I am sure that this partnership will generate mutual benefits for all involved, while encouraging a flourishing arts event here in Moscow."
Pushkina said:"We are honoured to become the first art fair supported by Qatar Airways and grateful to the new General Partner of Cosmoscow for long-term cooperation. Our partnership will contribute to the establishment of cultural dialogue between Qatar and Russia, as well as to the development of the Fair and its numerous initiatives. It will further strengthen the integration of Russian contemporary art into the international context."
As the General Partner of Cosmoscow, QA will first be represented at the main venue of the Fair at Gostiny Dvor from September 6 to 9, 2018, and will have an opportunity to participate in a number of Cosmoscow projects and programmes.