Llewellyn Flores
Doha
An understanding of a people's culture creates a connection and fosters respect. This guides the kind of tourism Coming Up in Qatar promotes.
Managed by Jo Sullivan and Sharif Massouh, the organisation holds tours within Doha as well as in other parts of Qatar. From museums to the dunes, they'll take tourists on a journey of not just the sights and sounds of the country but also into its lifestyle, culture and history.
What is the meaning of the Qatar flag? How significant is the falcon to the Qatari culture? Why is the oud so costly? How do you haggle at the gold souq? What is there to explore in Qatar? This is the information people can get in Coming Up in Qatar tours.
"I met Jo Sullivan in a tour guide training programme. It was just she and me there," Massouh said laughing. He is one of the few licensed tour guides in Qatar."I think that was in September 2017. We discovered that we had something in common. She loves Qatar and loves staying here and so do I.
"We decided to work together on these programmes. She had already established the Facebook page Coming Up in Qatar but now we are working on the page together," added the Syrian who has been a resident of Qatar for six years.
Regular activities of Coming Up in Qatar include falcon tours, souq tours, photowalks and cooking classes. They also hold tailored city tours, to Sheikh Faisal Museum, dune-bashing and tours to historical sites. They have also conducted tours to football stadiums, which are currently on hold awaiting new regulations for touring the sites.
In their falcon tours, an expert talks about the nature of the falcon such as their favourite prey, the difference between male and female and their breeding cycle. Tourists are also given a picture of falconry and its significance in the Qatari culture and lifestyle. They are taught how to approach and lift a falcon.
"We talk about the historical background, why it's important for Qataris to have falcons, what this particular heritage stands for," said Massouh."We give them educational details, not just fun or running here and there. And a lot of people come with their children."
The tours to the souq include a visit to the bird market, handicraft market, horse and camel stables, the gold souq, a lesson on oud fragrances and how to haggle for prices."You can haggle at the gold and diamond market. We give people an idea on how to go about it," said Massouh. They also introduce tourists to some local drinks like the Arabian coffee, some facts about the Museum of Islamic Art and Al Fanar landmarks visible from the souq.
The focus of their cooking classes is Arabian dishes."These are for people who like to know more about Arab food," Massouh said."We conduct classes at Huda Restaurant at Hotel Park Sheraton. For QR100, you get a buffet and we can teach you and your children, if you like, how to cook and the chefs are really helpful."
Coming Up in Qatar is collaborating with Qatar Tourism Authority and soon, their tours will include MIA and Mathaf museums and libraries. Also, new experiences for guests like horse-riding will be included in the itinerary soon.
Touring should be a wholesome experience, opines Massouh, saying,"You cannot just go out and say, 'Oh. I'm trying to give them the best experience' and you spend four hours outside; amazing for the guide but the tourist might be burning from the heat. Or maybe, a guest needs to go to the toilet but the guide cannot find one. It's not always about how much information you give or how much effort you put in. You have to make the whole experience a good one for the visitor."
Most of Coming Up in Qatar patrons are expatriates and transit visitors. Through their style of guided tours the organisation aims at increasing the footfall to Qatar.
Massouh said the presence of QTA offices all over the world and the drive to get bloggers to blog about Qatar helped tourism especially after the blockade. So did the free visa scheme, which gave more people the opportunity to visit the country.
When asked what edge Qatar has over other countries in the GCC in terms of tourism, he said,"When we take people out for tours, it's always museums, historical places, heritage in addition to fun. We have a variety to pick from for museums, fun children's activities, outdoors and indoors."
He added that the presumption that there is not much to do in Qatar stems from the lack of knowledge about the country."Publicity can certainly be improved to target the right people and make them aware of what's going on motor shows, races, international events. There are private farms here you can visit and see how things are done. The list can go on and on.
"If I put up a programme for you it can go for 15 days," he stated.
Get to know of Coming Up in Qatar's events on https://www.facebook.com/comingupinqatar.