Tribune News Network
Doha
Preparations to host the third Government Procurement and Contracting Conference and Exhibition (Moushtarayat) are in full swing, one of its organisers, the Qatar Development Bank (QDB), said on Monday.
The three-day exhibition, which is slated to begin on April 23, aims to open a wide window for networking among big buyers (government, semi-government and large private entities) and SMEs. It will also pave the way to realise the current opportunities and consolidate the constant collaborative access to government and private contracting in Qatar.
This year's edition of the exhibition will provide SMEs with more than 2,000 opportunities with an estimated cumulative value of up to QR4.6 billion.
The event will also extend the participants a platform to learn about existing public tenders extended by 40 big buyers.
In addition, Moushtarayat 2018 aims to educate the participants on the procedures involved in tender and application processes successfully so that members of the private sector can become more active contributors to the diversification of the economy.
This was revealed at a press conference held on Monday at the Ministry of Finance. The press meet was attended by Government Procurement Regulation Director Abdulaziz Zeid Rashid al Taleb, Technical Office manager of Ashghal Ahmed Ali al Ansari and QNB Group Corporate & Institution Banking General Manager Yousef al Neama.
QDB Chief Executive Officer Abdulaziz bin Nasser al Khalifa, said,"The exhibition is expected to bring significant achievements to all stakeholders. SMEs will be able to identify the existing opportunities and open new markets through their presence."
Local buyers will also benefit from gaining more knowledge and establishing better dialogue with prominent buyers and suppliers, he added.
"QDB's efforts will help enhance SMEs market positions both technically and financially by assisting to localise supply chains.
"The active participation of entrepreneurs and SMEs at previous two editions of Moushtarayat underscored the success of the event and demonstrated how deeply they valued new public sector opportunities."
QDB has joined hands with the Ministry of Finance to organise the third edition of Moushtarayat.
"We are certain that this expo will help the partnership between the private and public sectors reach new heights. One of the most important initiatives we commit ourselves to at QDB is supporting and helping SMEs," Khalifa said.