QNA
Doha
The National Tourism Council will start operations in the second quarter of 2018, Qatar Tourism Authority (QTA) Acting Chairman Hassan al Ibrahim has said.
The council will follow on QTA's path and take the Qatari tourism sector among the best in the world, Ibrahim told the Lusail magazine in an interview. Letting the private sector have a role at the council, which will oversee the development and regulation of the tourism industry, will go a long way in achieving that, he added.
The first meeting of the council, he said, will deal with the formation of its internal organisational structure, which will include a representative of the private sector and an executive branch responsible for exhibitions. The objective behind this is to attract major international conferences that profit the country's economy instead of relying on the state budget.
Ibrahim said the council will not have any connection with commercial public sales events, but will rather be limited to monitoring specialised events that add to the economic value of the country and ensure the conclusion of joint deals that achieve revenue.
Ibrahim said the new council aims to increase the number of international companies in the Qatari market and increase the number of specialised exhibitions.
"Qatar is moving ahead with a paradigm shift in the tourism sector, and opening up to the world in a careful manner that will not affect Qatari customs and traditions," he said, stressing that the target segments of the society and the tourism products that are processed for them are carefully studied to be consistent with the nature of the society and the nature of the evolution of urbanisation in Doha. Fundamentally, the council's plans will be oriented to give the priority to family tourism.
As for tapping the tourism potential in hosting the 2022 World Cup in Qatar, Ibrahim said the QTA has stitched a strategic partnership with the Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy (SC) to use the football spectacle to promote Qatar as a tourist destination.