Tribune News Network
QATAR'S world-class healthcare system has gained international recognition as it has been ranked the 13th best in the world and first in the Middle East by the 2017 Legatum Prosperity Index. The annual index ranks and measures the health of people living in 149 countries.
To be ranked 13th in the world is an endorsement of the quality of the health care Qatar delivers to patients every day across its health system. The development of Qatar's health system in terms of both capacity increase and advancement of the quality of care has been remarkable in the recent decades. The National Health Strategy 2018-2022 unveiled under the theme 'Our Health, Our Future' on Saturday aims to take the nation's health care to the next level.
Launched at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in Healthcare in the presence of Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of State for Defence Affairs HE Dr Khalid bin Mohamed al Attiah and Minister of Public Health Dr Hanan Mohamed al Kuwari, the five-year strategy seeks to ensure better health for the entire population of Qatar by improving the healthcare system."Our ambition for the next stage in our journey is to make sure the entire population of Qatar enjoys better health," said al Kuwari while outlining the broader objectives of the new health strategy at the launch ceremony.
Though the 2018-2022 health strategy seeks to build on the strong foundations of the first five-year national health strategy (2011— 2016) that saw massive capacity expansion, strengthening of e-health besides introduction of specialised treatment technology and world-class care pathways, it's different in at least one respect: adoption of a new approach to Qatar's emerging health challenges, aligned to a global shift to population health and more integrated care.
A healthy population is the force behind the progress and development of a nation. No wonder Qatar aspires to build a physically as well as mentally healthy society, which will be the nation's real strength. Qatar National Vision 2030 also includes this among its major goals.
This approach aims to improve individual's health by addressing the health needs of population groups, recognising that factors such as gender, geography, employment status and age have a large impact on individual health needs.
The new strategy lays equal stress on curative and preventive methods. Special efforts will be directed towards promoting a healthy lifestyle and consumption of healthy food while discouraging unhealthy habits like smoking and a sedentary life. As part of the shift from individual to population health, the second health strategy will focus on seven priority groups, each with its own health requirements, such as children and adolescents, women and the elderly, employees and mental and chronic patients besides people with special needs.
The first national health strategy (2011-2016) saw a massive and rapid expansion of Qatar's health infrastructure. The Hamad Medical Commission (HMC) has opened seven new hospitals and a number of specialist facilities since 2011 significantly strengthening the healthcare system and expanding the range of services offered to patients. In the last two years alone HMC has opened four new hospitals in the campus of Hamad Bin Khalifa Medical City, Doha: the Communicable Disease Center, Qatar Rehabilitation Institute, Ambulatory Care Center and Women's Wellness and Research Center. HMC manages 12 hospitals nine specialist and three community hospitals as well as the National Ambulance Service and residential care services.
There are also a number of privately-run hospitals and clinics to augment the country's health services and speed up care delivery.
The second national health plan (2018-2022) seeks to build on the achievements of the first five-year strategy and carry forward the mission of making the life of the people in Qatar healthier and happier.