
QATAR Museums (QM) has launched an initiative allowing the local community to donate their historical objects and artefacts to be exhibited at the forthcoming National Museum of Qatar.
The donation drive will grant a limited number of the local community the privilege of showcasing historical objects belonging to them within the wider museum.
Opening officially in December 2018, the National Museum of Qatar tells the story of the people of Qatar, giving voice to the country's rich heritage and history while celebrating its future, QM said in a press statement on Monday.
The museum represents one of the most significant cultural projects in the country and also one of the most ambitious museum projects of its kind all over the world.
Exhibitions will combine historic objects and contemporary influences, opening up a dialogue around the impact of rapid change. Innovative presentation techniques will excite audiences and push boundaries.
The museum will be a thriving hub for the public, students and museum professionals. It will redefine the role of a cultural institution, fostering a spirit of participation and providing the conditions for discovery to thrive, the statement said.
The museum's structure surrounds the Old Palace of Sheikh Abdullah Bin Jassim Al Thani. The Old Palace, a former Royal Residence and seat of government, was converted into the original National Museum of Qatar in 1975. It is one of most recognisable landmarks in the country and serves as a monument to a historic way of life in Qatar. The palace has a unique historical significance for the country and will be a fitting central exhibit within the National Museum when it opens.
Commenting on the donation drive, HE Sheikha Amna bint Abdulaziz bin Jassim al Thani, director of the National Museum of Qatar, said:"The National Museum will be a source of pride for our entire nation. With this donation drive we're providing a unique opportunity for selected members of the local community to play their part in helping tell the story of the country's past, present and future. We're excited to see just how varied and unusual the various belongings and objects we receive are."
Individuals interested in making a donation should contact the National Museum of Qatar team on 5571-4513 or alwatani@qm.org.qa.