
STUDENTS at Northwestern University in Qatar (NU-Q) were recognised for their work at the school's annual Media and Research Awards ceremony.
The event highlights the best student work in areas of research, documentary, creative writing, fiction, news and multimedia content.
Prior to the awards ceremony, the university hosted a public showcase of all nominees at the NU-Q auditorium. The submissions were judged by local and international industry leaders, including representatives from Al Jazeera, Memac Ogilvy, Ginger Camel, Qatar University and the Doha Institute for Graduate Studies.
"Each year our students create a number of creative, professional and scholarly projects that are showcased and recognised for their excellence," said Everette E. Dennis, dean and CEO."At the Media and Research Awards ceremony our students' work is validated by professionals from the industry, which is a true indication of the quality of their work."
Students submit their work in 11 categories and one project is selected from each. Approximately a third of the NU-Q student body was involved in the creation of the nominated projects.
"The awards ceremony amplifies the spirit of collaboration that we have in NU-Q," said student Zaki Hussain."I'm excited for the premiere of my next film, Terima Kasih, which won the Best Creative Writing award for its screenplay."
To judge the submissions, each year, NU-Q selects a number of experts from the industry, whose combined expertise covers an array of areas in media, journalism and communication.
This year, the judges were: Bronwyn Bethel, writing center administrator, Northwestern University in Qatar; Andrew Phillips, editor, Al Jazeera; Poppy Clinton, senior producer, Edge Picture Company; Hafiz Abdulla, director of the museum, Msheireb Properties; Rima Ismail, outreach and special projects manager, HBKU Press; Anil Kumar Vijayan, editor, BQ Magazine; Stefan Lindberg-Jones, founder and managing director, Ginger Camel; Kamahl Santamaria, presenter, Al Jazeera; Hatoon al Fassi, faculty member, Qatar University; Eid Mohamed, assistant professor of comparative literature, Doha Institute for Graduate Studies; Abdel-Samie Felfel, senior program manager, Qatar National Research Fund; Maclean Brodie, PR director, Memac Ogilvy.