
THE Public Health Care Corporation (PHCC) has organised the seventh visitors' forum at Abu Bakr Health Center, aiming to establish channels of communication with the community and follow up on visitors' feedback as well as to measure their satisfaction regarding its services.
The forum was organised in a way that clearly reflects the supportive, collaborative and multidisciplinary work culture of PHCC at all levels.
Dr Mohammed Abdullah, community medicine specialist and head of patient participation at PHCC, said the recommendations and observations received through these forums help improve performance and services development.
He also touched on the National Health Strategy 2017-22, which has multiple programmes for disease prevention and health promotion.
In the context of future plans, Dr Hiam al Sada, regional chief for western region, confirmed that PHCC will keep pace with the increasing demand for its services, with a number of new HCs scheduled to open, including the Muaither HC.
Dr Osama al Jarwani, assistant regional chief for western region, spoke about Muaithar Health Center which is an integrated service centre. Visitors of Abu Bakr and Al Rayyan HCs can transfer their health files to Muaither HC, Dr Jarwani said.
Dr Emanal Yafie, director of Abu Bakr Health Center, praised the development of services at the health Centre which serves the people in Al Manaseer and Al Mura areas. Yafei said the 'Beautiful Smile Clinic' opened within the dental clinics treats children below the age of 12 years. This is in addition to the 'Quit Smoking Clinic' and Ophthalmology Clinic.
With regards tothe Quit Smoking Clinic, Dr Abdel Halim Laiouni, a general practitioner at Abu Bakr Health Center, explained the damage caused by direct and passive smoking, and the resulting diseases such as oral and lung cancers.
Mahmoud Saad al Shuraideh al Marri, one of the participants at the forum, praised the development of healthcare services, pointing out the difference between healthcare in Qatar, the UK and the US.He suggested providing a library at each health centre and pointed out the need to benefit from the experiences of developed countries in the provision of integrated health care.