
SCIENTISTS and engineers from around the world gathered in Doha to attend the 2018 International Conference on Thermal Engineering Theory and Applications (ICTEA).
The conference was organised by Texas A&M University at Qatar, Ryerson University (Canada) and Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU), and sponsored by the Qatar National Research Fund (QNRF).
Dr C`sar O. Malav`, dean of Texas A&M at Qatar, said:"Since 2004, this conference has been forging contacts between academics and researchers in regional institutions and their counterparts around the world. The caliber of speakers this year reflects the significance of this event to the region and we are honoured to have scholars of such reputation here to share their experience and expertise."
Dr Mounir Hamdi, dean of HBKU's College of Science and Engineering, said:"We value our partnership with Texas A&M University at Qatar and Ryerson University. The ICTEA conference's keynotes, presentations and research papers have helped us achieve a critical understanding of some of the most pertinent topics within the field of thermal engineering theory, as well as its practical applications to the oil and power industries. These are in line with our M.S. and Ph.D. programs in sustainable energy and sustainable environment, as well as the research that we conduct within the Division of Sustainable Development at CSE."
This year's conference featured seven invited speakers, as well as 40 technical papers and a poster session. The second day of the conference included ICTEA's first-ever student research symposium organised by Texas A&M University at Qatar during which undergraduate university students presented their research papers and posters.
First prize went to Tabarak Abdulhussein for his paper 'The Effect of Wettability on Viscous Fingering and Oil Recovery'. Second place went to the team of Danilo Yu, Kevin K Ye, Alan S Fung, Wey Leong, Zaiyi Liao for their paper 'Optimal PV Design and Configuration for Use in a BIPV/T System'. Third place went to Anthony Alex, Austin George, Bijo Thomas and Bonny Mathew Antony for their poster 'Design, Fabrication and Experimental Investigations on PEM Fuel Cells'.
ICTEA organisers said that well-defined and focused high-quality scientific meetings dedicated to forging contacts between academics and researchers in regional institutions of higher learning and their counterparts abroad are scarce. The purpose of the biannual international conference rotated around the Middle East, Gulf and North African region countries is to meet this need and to provide a well-structured platform to boost research activity and productivity in the region, as well as opportunities for networking.