Catherine W Gichuki
Doha
PATIENTS can now register into the new patient portal to get access to their medical information at MyHealth (Sehaty) Portal at www.myhealth.qa or at any Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) or Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC) facilities, officials have said.
According the officials, patients can also seek more information about MyHealth by calling Nesma'ak at HMC on '16060' or Hayyak at PHCC on '107'.
The portal was launched recently by Prime Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani at 'Knowledge Zone' exhibition area of the just concluded Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety.
Minister of Public Health HE Dr Hanan Mohamed al Kuwari said,"MyHealth will empower patients by allowing them to play a more active role in controlling their health information and making more informed decisions about their well-being."
"It will help patients stay on track by providing up-to-date information about lab results and active medications and provide reminders about appointments. As part of the Clinical Information System (CIS), the portal allows patients to securely access their personal health records."
With MyHealth, patients can access their personal health record online and through a mobile app. Features of the portal include the ability to access lab reports, view and reschedule upcoming appointments, and review discharge summaries.
The portal also allows patients to send a non-urgent message to their healthcare provider in a confidential manner. The nationwide launch of the programme follows a successful pilot conducted at Hamad Medical Corporation (PHCC) and Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC).
HMC Deputy Chief Medical Officer of Clinical Information Systems Dr Abdul Wahab al Musleh said,"MyHealth provides patients with a single health record, regardless of whether they were seen at HMC or PHCC. This ensures health information is readily available and can be used in conversations with healthcare professionals when visiting HMC or PHCC. Just as the CIS revolutionised access to medical records in our hospitals, MyHealth can enhance the extent to which patients are actively involved in their healthcare delivery."
PHCC Executive Director of Operations Dr Samya Ahmad al Abdulla said the pilot programme demonstrated that patients want access to personal healthcare records in a convenient format.
"Our patients said that one of the key benefits of MyHealth was being able to access their medical records in one place, which enabled them to check and track them. It also reduces the need to make a return visit to their physician as they can access some results online and communicate with their physician through the portal."
HMC Executive Chief Medical Information Officer Dr Ali al Sanousi said Qatar is leading the region in implementing digital healthcare solutions like MyHealth.
"Once registered, patients can access these records from their computer, tablet or smartphone. Like CIS, MyHealth will help improve both patient safety and clinical efficiency by making the necessary information available in one place."
Cerner, a global leader in healthcare technology and the provider of the electronic health record platform used across Qatar, has been an important partner for the country's healthcare sector.
"We are privileged to be partnering with the Ministry of Public Health, Hamad Medical Corporation and Primary Health Care Corporation in transforming health care for the people of Qatar. The patient portal is one vital step on this journey in improving the way we engage with the population and empowering us all to take a more active and informed role in managing our health," said President of Cerner Global Emil Peters.