Tribune News Network
DOHA
QATAR Airways (QA) has commenced serving the Atlanta market with its ultra-modern Airbus A350-900, bringing a new level of aerodynamics, design and advanced technology to international travellers in Atlanta, the airline has announced.
The airline marked the occasion with a water canon salute and special celebration at the airport for its passengers in celebration of the inaugural service, which included surprising passengers with a Qatar Airways-themed cake and refreshments as well as complimentary in-flight Wi-Fi.
The airline operates daily flights from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL), and is the only carrier to offer nonstop flights between Atlanta and Qatar, connecting travellers in the Atlanta market to more than 150 destinations worldwide via Hamad International Airport (HIA) in Doha.
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar al Baker said,"We are proud to deploy the state-of-the-art A350 aircraft on our popular Atlanta-Doha route. Since our arrival in Atlanta in 2016, we've been honoured to provide the utmost travel experience to the local community as Atlanta has been and continues to be a key route for business and leisure traffic.
"With our extensive network and Doha-based hub, we offer geographic advantages which other airlines cannot connecting passengers to the Far East, Africa and the Middle East. With our A350 arrival, Atlantans will continue to enjoy unprecedented levels of comfort and innovation that will meet their long-haul demands."
QA was the global launch customer of the Airbus A350 in December 2014 and debuted the aircraft in the United States in January 2016 to Philadelphia. Just last month, the airline welcomed Airbus' newest twin-aisle jet, the Airbus A350-1000, for which it is the global launch customer once again.
The state-of-the-art aircraft features 36 seats in Business Class in a spacious 1-2-1 configuration, featuring 80-inch fully flat horizontal beds and a 247 seating capacity in Economy Class in a 3-3-3 layout. In addition to being Wi-Fi enabled, passengers in all classes can enjoy more than 4,000 entertainment options on QA's award-winning Oryx One in-flight entertainment system. Encompassing a host of eco-efficiency features, the aircraft is equipped with LED mood lighting that help reduce the effect of jetlag and maximize passenger comfort.
Passengers will also experience less fatigue upon arrival thanks to the aircraft's optimal air management system, which filters the air every few minutes and controls the humidity level onboard.