
Qatar Charity (QC) has provided an emergency relief aid to 100 Syrian families with 700 members, affected by a fire outbreak in the Semmaqiyeh refugee camp located in Akkar District of Lebanon, at a cost of QR250,000.
The aid, which included sheltering items, heating requirements and food, aims at urgently compensating those affected by the fire and alleviating their multiple humanitarian suffering under the framework of the QC's 'Affected by Winter' campaign.
Faisal al Fahida, executive director of the QC's Executive Management of International Operations, said the charity is very keen to take care of Syrian refugees, particularly those in Lebanon, as it provides an additional and special care to those living there under tragic circumstances, noting that the aid provided social, humanitarian and psychological support to the beneficiaries.
Fahida added that the aid involved providing 30 tents as a first stage and food baskets to 100 families, which contain oil, butter, bulgur, rice, grains, tomato jam, macaroni, salt, sugar, tuna, tea, lentils, vermicelli, flour and others.
The relief materials also included clothes, blankets and mattresses distributed to all the target families, Fahida said in a statement.
Fahida thanked all those who contributed to the QC's relief campaigns to support affected Syrian people inside and outside the country since the beginning of the crisis and appealed to philanthropists, both Qatari and residents, to continue their support for Syrian people.
Earlier, Qatar Charity has provided relief aid to more than 6,000 people in the besieged Syrian Ghouta as part of the QC's urgent responses to lessen the suffering of the people living in the area in the extremely difficult humanitarian conditions.
Qatar Charity has also launched its 'Affected by Winter' campaign to support displaced people and refugees affected by bitter winter and heavy raining in Syria, Rohingya, Iraq and Palestine.
Donor can contribute to the 'Affected by Winter' campaign through the QC's website (qcharity.org) and App. Also, you can make your donation at the QC headquarters, branches and collection points located in commercial complexes as well as through the hotline (44667711).