Comments 
Qatar Airways now offers flights to Atlanta, Georgia with its ultra-modern Airbus A350-900, bringing a new level of aerodynamics, design and advanced technology to international travellers in that part of the United States. 
Skytrax’s reigning ‘Airline of the Year’ marked the occasion with a water canon salute and a special celebration at the airport, which included surprising passengers with a Qatar Airways-themed cake and refreshments as well as complimentary in-flight Wifi . 
The airline operates daily flights from Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport (ATL) , and is the only carrier to offer nonstop flights between Atlanta and Qatar, connecting corporate and leisure travellers to more than 150 destinations worldwide via the airline’s home and hub in Doha, Hamad International Airport (HIA) . 
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar Al Baker, said they are exceptionally proud to deploy the state-of-the-art A350 aircraft to the popular Atlanta-Doha route. 
Since our arrival in Atlanta in 2016, we’ve been honoured to provide the utmost travel experience to the local community, as Atlanta has been, and continues to be, a key route for business and leisure traffic. With our extensive network and Doha-based hub, we offer geographic advantages that other airlines cannot – conveniently connect passengers to the Far East, Africa and the Middle East. With the arrival of A350, passengers in Atlanta will continue to enjoy unprecedented levels of comfort and innovation to meet their long-haul demands.’ 
Qatar Airways was the global launch customer of Airbus A350 in December 2014, and debuted the ultra-modern aircraft in the United States in January 2016 to Philadelphia. Just last month, the award-winning airline welcomed the newest twin-aisle jet, the Airbus A350-1000, for which it is, once again, the global launch customer. 
The state-of-the-art aircraft features 36 seats in Business Class in a spacious 1-2-1 configuration, featuring 80-inch fully flat horizontal beds and a 247 seating capacity in Economy Class in a 3-3-3 layout. In addition to being Wifi enabled, passengers in all classes can enjoy more than 4,000 entertainment options on the award-winning Oryx One in-flight entertainment system. The aircraft is equipped with LED mood lighting that help reduce the effect of jetlag and maximise passenger comfort. Passengers will experience less fatigue upon arrival thanks to the aircraft’s optimal air management system, which filters the air every few minutes and controls the humidity level onboard. 
For more information and updates about Qatar Airways, visit their website at qatarairways.com .