MyHealth Patient Portal Officially Opens During Healthcare Forum Posted on Comments Prime Minister and Minister of Interior Sheikh Abdullah Bin Nasser Bin Khalifa Al Thani recently inaugurated the MyHealth patient portal when he officially opened the ‘Knowledge Zone’ exhibition area during the Middle East Forum on Quality and Safety in Healthcare. The Forum is the largest conference dedicated to healthcare quality improvement and patient safety in the Arab world. The ‘MyHealth Patient Portal’ inauguration. Minister of Public Health Dr Hanan Mohamed Al Kuwari, along with senior leaders from the Ministry of Public Health, Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC), and Primary Health Care Corporation (PHCC) were also in attendance. Dr Al Kuwari underscored the importance of empowering patients to take an active role in their healthcare decision making. MyHealth will empower patients by allowing them to play a more active role in controlling their health information and making more informed decisions about their well-being. It helps patients stay on track by providing up-to-date information about lab results and active medications and provides reminders about appointments. As part of the Clinical Information System (CIS) , the portal allows patients to securely access their personal health records.’ With MyHealth , patients can access their electronic personal health record online and through a mobile app. Features of the portal include the ability to access lab reports, to view and reschedule upcoming appointments, and to review discharge summaries. The portal also allows patients to send a non-urgent message to their healthcare provider in a confidential manner. The nationwide launch of the programme follows a successful pilot conducted at HMC and PHCC. Dr Abdul Wahab Al Musleh, Deputy Chief Medical Officer, CIS at HMC said MyHealth is a convenient and secure way for patients to access key medical records. MyHealth provides patients with a single health record, regardless of whether they were seen at HMC or PHCC. This ensures health information is readily available and can be used in conversations with healthcare professionals. Just as the CIS revolutionised access to medical records in our hospitals, MyHealth can enhance the extent to which patients are actively involved in their healthcare.’ Dr Samya Ahmad Al Abdulla, Executive Director of Operations at PHCC, said the pilot programme demonstrated that patients want access to personal healthcare records in a convenient format. Dr Ali Al Sanousi, Executive Chief Medical Information Officer at HMC said Qatar is leading the region in implementing digital healthcare solutions like MyHealth. Once registered, patients can access these records from their computer, tablet, or smartphone. Like CIS, MyHealth will help improve both patient safety and clinical efficiency by making the necessary information available in one place.’ Cerner , a global leader in healthcare technology and the provider of the electronic health record platform used across Qatar, has been an important partner for the country’s healthcare sector. Currently, patients can enroll for MyHealth Portal online at myhealth.qa or at any HMC or PHCC facility. Patients can also seek more information about MyHealth by calling Nesma’ak at HMC on 16060 or Hayyak at PHCC on 107.