Satyendra Pathak
Doha
In a bid to support the country's private sector, Qatar Ports Management Company (Mwani Qatar) is taking various initiatives to reduce freight costs, a senior official of the company has said.
Mwani Qatar Strategy and Business Development Manager Jabor Ali al Sulaiti told Qatar Tribune that efforts are on to sign long-term agreements with direct shipping lines with an aim to reduce freight costs.
While the prices of services offered at Hamad Port and other ports in the country are less than the regional benchmark, Sulaiti said, Mwani Qatar is working relentlessly to address issues concerning the local suppliers.
"The local suppliers often raise the issue of high freight charges. While out first aim is to ensure that all the local firms receive uninterrupted supply of goods and commodities through Hamad Port, we are also working on several mechanisms to improve our services including lowering freight costs," Sulaiti said.
Initiatives like reducing the trip time of direct shipping lines, serving the upper Gulf with feeders instead of huge ship, and increasing the volume of imports and exports are being taken to lower freight costs.
"Using feeder in place of heavy vessels for transshipment to upper Gulf from Hamad Port will reduce the cost of direct shipping lines per trip. It will ultimately lower the cost for end-users," he said.
Several systems are also being put in place to save time and efforts during the release of cargos at Hamad Port, he said, adding, such moves would also lower the handling fees at the port.
Efforts are also on to put a mechanism that is fully automatic to further reduce the charges at the port, he said.
Regarding the demand of local private firms to increase the storage time at the Hamad Port from three days to at least seven days, Sulaiti said it might continue due to heavy rush at the port.
"After the blockade of land route by the siege countries last year, Hamad Port has become the main gateway for all imports to Qatar. The average arrival of containers at the port has increased manifold after the siege.
"In such a situation, storage facilities need to be cleared within a short time to accommodate new arrivals and keep it moving," he said. Sulaiti, however, said the storage area at the Hamad Port is being increased to facilitate the arrivals of increased containers at the port.