Fathi Abul'ez
Doha
QATAR DEBATE, a member of Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development, will host the 4th International Schools Arabic Debating Championship to be held at Qatar National Convention Centre in Doha from April 7 to 11, 2018.
The championship is held under the patronage of Her Excellency Sheikha Hind bint Hamad al Thani, Vice-Chairperson and CEO of Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development (QF).
Fifty countries including 15 Arabic-speaking and 35 non-Arabic speaking will participate in the championship.
As many as eight countries will be participating in the championship for the first time. They include Russia, Kosovo, Spain, Thailand, Serbia, Albania, Poland and Kyrgyzstan.
The announcement came during a press conference organise by Qatar Debate Centre in the presence of Dr Hayat Abdullah Maarafi, Executive Director of Qatar Debate; Ali Sultan al Muftah, Director of Public Relations and Media at Qatar Debate Center; Omar al Shaibani, Head of Finance Department at Qatar Primary Materials Company (QPMC), representing the official sponsor; and Mohammed Saad al Rumaihi, director of Corporate Identity, Acting Communications and Marketing at Al Jazeera Media Network, representing the media partner.
Maarafi expressed her delight at the launch of the championship, pointing to the increasing number of participating countries.
"We thought that the siege would create a challenge, but it was the starting point for the championship as we have achieved more comparing to the previous years with the increased number of participants. This shows that the world is not limited to four countries. They actually imposed a blockade on themselves and their people and deprived them of participating in such international forums," Maarafi said.
She added the Pioneers of Debate Award was launched in 2015 and won by Kuwait University and will be also re-launched in this championship. A special committee was formed of experts in the field and 10 applicants that have met the required standards were selected.
Shaibani said,"We are pleased to be present at the press conference as QPMC is the main sponsor of the championship this year."
Rumaihi stressed the keenness of Al Jazeera Media Network, the media partner of the championship, on supporting such activities and events that promote public speaking skills and aim to establish and disseminate the science of debate and dialogue in Arabic and encourage students to apply critical thinking.