CATHERINE W GICHUKI
DOHA
HAMAD Medical Corporation (HMC) received over 85,000 patient visits for treatments at the dental clinics in 2017, including those who received specialised services such as periodontal care and implants, orthodontic services, prosthodontic procedures, oral surgery, and endodontic and restorative treatments, officials have revealed.
The visits included 67,000 at the Hamad Dental Center in Rumailah and 10,300 at Al Wakrah, 1,750 at Al Khor and 5,600 at The Cuban hospitals' dental branches, respectively.
Speaking to media persons in Doha on Tuesday, HMC Divisional and Unit Chief, Orthodontics and Senior Dentistry Consultant Dr Najat al Sayed said the dental sector in Qatar has improved over the years with the waiting time lesser than applicable in other countries.
She said the new National Health Strategy 2018-2022 prioritises decrease in the prevalence of dental caries in Qatar.
"Eighty-nine percent of children aged between six and 12 years have dental caries," she said.
The official revealed that there is a relationship between gum disease, heart disease and diabetes, as well as a link between periodontal disease in pregnancy and premature birth, stressing the need for people to take care of their oral health.
Dr Sayed said that tooth brushing with toothpaste is the most important way to maintain good oral health as toothpaste contains fluoride.
She described oral health as a multi-faceted approach which includes the ability to speak, smile, smell, taste, chew, swallow, and conveys a range of emotions through facial expressions with confidence.
"Brushing one's teeth after each meal per day, flossing daily and consuming a healthy diet are simple things that can be done to protect oral health and overall well-being. It is also important to seek professional dental care as soon as an oral health problem arises," she said.
On his part, HMC Consultant and CPD Coordinator of Orthodontic Section Dr Abdulmueen al Qahtani urged people to concentrate more on how to clean their teeth rather than choosing the toothpaste because the toothpaste will not be effective if the brushing is not done properly.
"The best way to brush is from the gum to the tooth. For the upper side, one should brush from up downwards and do slight round movements softly. When patients have gingivitis or inflammation, they should use the soft brush and brush softly not to hurt the gum. Those who have black stains, either because of coffee or smoking, should use the hard kind," he said, advising people to teach children the habit of brushing at an early age.
To celebrate the World Oral Health Day, which is marked on March 20, the health sector-led National Oral Health Committee hosted a number of educational activities across Qatar under the theme, 'Say Ahh'.