Santhosh Chandran
Doha
THE recent boom in agriculture sector has opened new investment and employment opportunities in agriculture consultancy in Qatar, experts in the field have said.
According to sources, the demands for experts in various fields related to agriculture have steadily increased since Qatar has taken a strong initiative to boost its agriculture production.
Speaking to Qatar Tribune at an event in Doha recently, Saad Mana al Ahbabi, Chairman of Our Farm Agriculture Services, the only organic farming certification agency in Qatar, said that young investors who are passionate in agriculture are seeking experts and professionals to follow scientific methods in agriculture to increase productivity.
"We see this as an opportunity. This is high time for the professionals and academically talented individuals to explore the emerging situation that offer both investment and employment opportunities," he said.
"We have many things possible in agriculture sector now which seemed impossible even six months ago. Now, a number of young investors have come forward to invest in agriculture sector with a target to produce vegetables not only to meet domestic requirements but also to export. So, investors in this sector could not go beyond the existing situation without the consultancy support and proper guidance," a farmer said.
Manager of Our Farm, Sareena Shereef, said that they are getting plenty of enquiries about different phases of cultivation that begins from soil testing to harvest of yield.
"We have an expert team to provide all the detailed information about agriculture. We are also undertaking the task to provide the agriculture infrastructure needed that includes construction of green houses, irrigation system and supply of materials required for cultivation," Shereef added.
"We are the only authority in the country to provide certification for organic farming. The internationally recognised certification will help the farmers ensure the quality of their products and markets such products can enter into," said an official of Our Farm.