Tribune News Network
Doha
HAMAD International Airport (HIA), the home of Qatar Duty Free (QDF), was ranked the 4th 'Best Airport for Shopping' and the fifth 'Best Airport for Dining' in the world at the Skytrax World Airport Awards 2018 held in Stockholm on March 21.
The Skytrax World Airport Awards are the most prestigious accolades for the airport industry, voted by customers in the largest annual global airport customer satisfaction survey.
HIA moved up one place in the 'Best Airport for Shopping' category from last year, and maintained its position as fifth 'Best Airport for Dining' for the second consecutive year.
Head of QDF Thabet Musleh said:"With a diverse range of retail and food and beverage outlets, we constantly strive to improve the shopping and dining experience for all our customers. As such, we are particularly excited for HIA, the home of QDF, to receive these awards. We greatly value the opinion of all of our passengers, and we will continue to push the boundaries and to set new standards for the industry to continue to ensure that QDF is an experience worth travelling for."
One of the largest duty free retailers in the world, QDF boasts more than 90 elegant boutiques and luxury, high-end stores, as well as over 30 restaurants and caf`s covering an area of 40,000 square metres at HIA, providing travellers with a world-class shopping experience under one roof. Luxury brands available at the five-star airport include Gucci, Bulgari, Herm'e8s, Giorgio Armani, Hugo Boss, Moncler, Rolex and Harrods.
Passengers travelling through the airport can also enjoy an extensive selection of cuisine from all corners of the globe, from gourmet restaurants including Soprafino and Le Grand Comptoir Brasserie to cafes and fast food outlets strategically placed across the South and North Duty Free Plazas, as well as along Concourses A, B, C, D and E.
QDF is committed to providing passengers with a memorable five-star experience at HIA. The innovative, award-winning duty free operator has enjoyed consistent double-digit growth year-on-year and is now the second-largest duty free operator in the Middle East.