Lezima Gomes
With a plant-based diet at it core, Raw Me Middle East was established in 2012 by Qatari-American nutritionist, Layla al Dorani. Passionate about a raw, plant-based diet and incorporating juices into the daily routine, she wanted to share the goodness with others.
"Qatar has an obesity problem and this is fuelled by easy access to cheap, processed food. I wanted to be a part of the solution and to help provide good, healthy solutions. I understand that it's not always possible to spend a lot of time in the kitchen preparing healthy nourishment, so Raw Me stepped in and solved that problem for people," she said.
Speaking about the juice range, Layla said,"We have a range of juices including green junkie, spicy lemonade, creamy nut milks and pineapple/apple/mint juice for the sweet-toothed. In 2017, we launched our range of cold brew coffees made with plant milk."
Raw Me Middle East started off by just providing raw, cold-press juices direct to people's doors. The company has only grown and now serves juices and a raw, plant-based meal plan. Their juices are sold at several locations throughout Doha, including at Al Meesh markets. Recently, they also designed a range of healthy snacks for children.
Raw Me also provides a full meal, which is raw, vegan, dairy free and gluten free and is delivered at your doorstep. They provide a full day raw meal which is two cold-pressed juices, one breakfast, one lunch, one snack, one dinner and one dessert.
Another package called Juso is a combination of juice and soup. This is ideal for anyone who wants to have juice all day and then be able to sit down with the family and enjoy a warm dinner. This package allows clients to enjoy three juices a day and two energy boosting, delicious soups.
Yet another package that they offer is the Juice Till Dinner package which is juice for the day and a raw, plant-based dinner at night. It includes four juices and one main meal and one dessert.
Last but not the least, they offer a power lunch which is a delicious light meal, cold-pressed juice and guilt-free dessert.
Layla is an MBA degree from HEC Paris and has a business undergraduate degree from the American University in Washington DC, said she has always been passionate about health and wellness."Having spent a lot of time in America when the juice movement was in full flow, I realised there weren't any options for this in Doha and so I decided to start Raw Me."
Raw Me aims to make it easy for people to change their lifestyles and embark upon their own health journey."We have a strong community feel and we are always at hand to help clients with any questions they may have about getting healthier or our juice/food packages."
Layla is a strong advocate of a vegan diet and said she enjoys a raw, plant-based diet because it's good for health."I find eating a vegan diet gives me more energy, and is rich in protein, iron, calcium and other essential vitamins and minerals. Of course, eating a vegan diet is good from an environmental perspective too," she said.
Over the years, Raw Me has managed to bag many awards. Some of them include 2012 Best Qatar Entrepreneurship Business Plan award Bedaya & SilaTech Launch, 2015 1st place Entrepreneur Achievement Award Reyada Competition, 2016 awarded Qatar's Top 50 SME Excellence List (Ranked 17th).
She said what makes Raw Me stand out from the rest is that it represents a holistic lifestyle that helps clients' overall health and well-being."Our juices are designed to celebrate the flavours and healing force of fruit and vegetables. Keeping people healthy and nourishing bodies is our number one goal. We know our clients come to us because they trust us to provide them with juice and food that is of the highest quality and is prepared in the healthiest way that will retain the most nutrition"
Currently operating with 30 employees, Layla recently launched fruityfriends.me which provides children healthy snacks and is exclusive to Qatar Airways with in-flight meals to the USA."However, we are expanding this part of our business and developing a range of health snacks for adults and children alike. We are currently waiting on machines to enable us to enter the local grocery stores," she explained.
Apart from delivery, Raw Me also has a grab-and-go shop at The Pearl-Qatar, inside T23, where clients can try their juices and meals, as well healthy smoothies made on site and acai bowl (coming soon). They also serve their juices in the following cafes: Meesh Caf`, Flatwhite Coffee (The Pearl & Education City), Jamocha, in Q Caf`.
Commenting on the awareness level about healthy eating in Qatar, she said,"Education is the number one way to tackle any health crisis. I think that Qataris have good awareness about what it takes to eat healthy, but just need help in implementing it. Sometimes, all we need is a bit of help and encouragement from the right places in order to form healthy habits."
Despite the easy accessibility of junk food, Layla thinks making a transition to healthy eating is actually happening in Qatar. She explained,"As long as we make sure that healthy-eating options are tasty and hassle free, more people will switch to a healthy lifestyle. There's a big shift happening at the moment with more people ready to take control of their own health and lifestyle and make it the best it can be, and we are proud to be at the forefront of that movement."
With awareness rising and people wanting to adopt a healthy lifestyle, there is a lot of competition in this sector currently. Raw Me hopes to stay one step ahead of the competition, and also to keep coming up with fresh and unique products for its clients."We hope to just keep providing top quality products and we regularly assess and evaluate what the market needs. We offer a service to the best of our ability and it's that dedication and good customer service that keeps our clients returning as well as new ones discovering us," she said.