Report by
L N Mallick
Pakistani community members in Qatar joined compatriots back home by organising various activities to mark their country's National Day on March 23.
The celebrations of the day commenced with an impressive flag-hoisting ceremony held on the Pakistan Embassy premises in the diplomatic area.
The function began with a recitation of verses from the Holy Quran by the Pakistani Embassy Community Welfare Attache Hafiz Junaid Amir Sial. A large number of Pakistanis, clad in traditional clothes, attended the function along with their families.
Pakistani Ambassador to Qatar HE Shahzad Ahmad unfurled the Pakistani flag to the tune of Pakistan's national anthem. He congratulated his compatriots on the auspicious day and stressed on the need for them to serve their host country with sincerity and take Pakistan to the heights of glory.
Earlier, Head of Chancery Sadia Gohar Khanum welcomed the guests. Special messages sent by Pakistani President Mamnoon Hussain and Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi were read out, with the two leaders highlighting the importance of the day and paid tribute to the Father of the Nation Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad Ali Jinnah, poet-philosopher Allama Dr Mohammad Iqbal and other leaders of the Pakistan Movement, whose concerted efforts led to the creation of Pakistan. They noted that the day is also a reminder that Pakistan was established through a democratic struggle and that democracy is the key to the further development and stability of the country. It is therefore imperative that democratic values be promoted so that tolerance, forbearance and harmony flourish in society.
Students of Pakistan International School presented patriotic songs like Dil Dil Pakistan and Is parcham ke saaye tale hum ek hain.
All Pakistanis Overseas Organization International (ApooWorld) and Punjab Music Group jointly organised a function to mark the day at White Moon Residences. Prominent among those who attended the event were Sheikh Zahid, Amin Motiwala, Nazakat Ali Khan, Chaudhary Hafiz Ullah, Furqhan Ahmed Paracha, Sajjad Ali, Iftikhar Uddin, Aamer Butt, Mohinder Jalandary, Qazi Salim, Rahat Ali, Hasib Ali and Aurangzeb. ApooWorld is seeking voting rights for overseas Pakistanis in the coming 2018 general elections.
Prominent community member and Souvenir Trading Company Chairman Haji Said Badshah organised a reception at his residence. A cake was cut to mark the event. Souvenir Trading Company is a reputed importer, marketer and distributor of fresh fruits, vegetables and other fresh produce. The group inaugurated its cold storage division on February 23, 2018 at Depalpur (Okara), Pakistan, for the processing and packaging of potatoes.