Tribune News Network
IF Qatar's adversaries thought that the air and land blockade imposed on the country would break the national will and hamper the growth, they must be ruing their decision. Among many national enterprises and entities that have defied the blockade and prospered since June last year is Qatar Airways. The national carrier has gone on acquisition and expansion spree, mocking the blockading countries as well as its regional industry rivals.
Qatar Airways has announced to buy a 25 per cent stake in one of Russia's largest airports. Akbar al Baker, Group Chief Executive of Qatar Airways, disclosed in Moscow that the deal on Vnukovo was expected to be concluded within eight weeks. Vnukovo is Russia's third-largest airport, which served 18 million passengers last year. The airport is used by the government for official travel. Businessman Vitaly Vantsev and partners own a 74.9 per cent stake of Vnukovo.
The purchase of 25 percent stake in the Russian airport is the third major acquisition in just over eight months since the blockade began. Two other acquisitions in airports stand out which need to be mentioned. First was a major acquisition in Italy's Meridiana. Qatar Airways acquired 49 percent of AQA Holding, the parent company of Meridiana with the previous sole shareholder Alisarda keeping 51 percent. Through Meridiana, Qatar Airways has strengthened its operations in Italy and Europe. Meridiana is the second largest Italian carrier, with an extensive network which connects the main Italian airports with Sardinia and provides connectivity with hubs in Europe, in the US and Africa.
After the Italian acquisition, Qatar Airways bought 9.6 percent stake in Hong Kong's Cathay Pacific from Kingboard Chemical, a Hong Kong-listed manufacturer. Qatar Airways became Cathay's third-biggest shareholder after Swire, the British-based conglomerate, with 45 per cent and Air China with 29.9 per cent stakes. Cathay Pacific is one of the most reputed and strongest carriers in the world with enviable brand value. However, the airline had been struggling with its finances as a result of fierce competitions it had been facing from China's state-backed carriers. Qatar Airways' acquisition, therefore, was timely and valuable for the Hong Kong-based carrier.
Earlier in 2016, Qatar Airways had bought a 25 per cent stake in Russia's St Petersburg's airport; it has a 20 percent stake in International Airlines Group, the parent company of British Airways and a 10 percent stake in South America's Latam Airline Group. But here our focus is on the post-siege acquisitions. Suffice it to say that Qatar Airways has gone on the offensive acquiring stakes in airlines in Europe and Asia bucking the impact of the blockade.
The acquisitions make business sense for the national airline. It has a large fleet, 213, of the most modern aircraft from Boeing and Airbus. Its fleet is also among the newest and the youngest with average age of its aircraft being just five years. The airline also has a large number of state-of-the-art aircraft on order. The acquisition and expansion, therefore, make sense as the airline has to serve and expand new markets. Qatar Airways' stakes in Meridiana, Cathay Pacific and Russia's Vnukovo will strengthen its position in important European and Asian markets. As for the fleet, Qatar Airways took delivery of 19 new aircraft in 2017 and has a large number of planes on order.
When talking about acquisition, a mention must be made of acquisition of hotels by Qatar Airways too in the post-blockade period. It acquired the Sheraton Melbourne Hotel as part of growing portfolio of its hospitality division, Dhiafatina Hotels. Dhiafatina Hotels also has the Sheraton Skyline Hotel at London's Heathrow Airport, The Novotel Edinburgh Park in Edinburgh Scotland, the Oryx Rotana Hotel in Doha and The Airport Hotel located at Doha's Hamad International Airport (HIA). Not all hotels (acquired in pre-blockade period) in its portfolio. Dhiafatina, which means,"Our Hospitality" in Arabic, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Qatar Airways Group and it represents the Qatar Airways Group expansion into hospitality business including hotels, spa management, and other services.
Qatar Airways was on the hit list of the blockading countries when the air and land siege was announced last year. The airline had to look for new routes that proved to be costly. It goes without saying that some of the busiest network routes were affected by the blockade. But national will, the airline's smart business and management sense, astute and forward-looking planning overcame the temporary setback of the siege. Qatar Airways soars high in the sky, blockade or no blockade.