Tribune News Network
Doha
GEORGETOWN University's School of Continuing Studies will host an information session in Doha for professionals interested in its International Executive Master's in Emergency & Disaster Management (IEDM) program.
The event, which will be held on Wednesday, (March 28) at 6:30pm at the Hilton Doha Hotel, will provide an overview of the program and allow future students to find out more about the application process.
The IEDM is a unique one year master's degree that aims to enable the next generation of emergency and disaster management professionals to face the challenges of a global future. Through a combination of online learning and on-site residencies in Amman, Doha, Muscat, Paris and Washington, D.C., the program equips students to lead in the face of a diverse range of natural and man made events.
Students tackle topics such as public health and humanitarian crises, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, and coordinating preparedness, response and recovery efforts across international borders.
Mansoor al Khater, chief strategy officer at Ooredoo Group, decided to enrol in the IEDM degree because he wanted to understand the root causes of threats and how to respond from an academic perspective."Being aware of the global and regional situation, I used to ask myself, 'What if this happens in my country?'" said Khater."The current Qatar blockade began after I committed to the program. It convinced me to believe in my instincts of gaining knowledge on preparedness and agility."
"Emergency and disaster management is an area that is facing neglect within most organisations. People think that when a crisis happens, they will respond according to the situation," said Khater."However, this is a discipline which needs lot of planning and preparation — not only at a workplace, but also as a part of every school curriculum so our younger generation is aware of crisis and how to respond. I would encourage my colleagues working with government or private organisations to join this program."
"This program has specific and very interesting elements," explained current student Tuskheer Abid, associate director of building operations, safety and security at Georgetown University in Qatar."You have the theory — which is good — but you're also going into the field and meeting with the professionals who are doing the work on the ground and who have experienced major emergencies. There is no counter to that sort of knowledge."
The final application deadline for the IEDM degree is May 1, 2018, and classes begin in the fall. Interested applicants are encouraged to RSVP for the information session on the website: 'scs.georgetown.edu/doha'.