Tribune News Network
Khartoum
MINISTER of Transport and Communications HE Jassim Saif Ahmed al Sulaiti and Sudan's Minister of Transportation, Roads and Bridges Engineer Makawi Mohamed Awad on Monday witnessed the signing of the minutes of the meeting of the joint committee on developing and managing the Sudanese Port of Suakin.
Hassan bin Hassan al Hail, chairman of the joint committee on transport with the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MoTC), and Director-General of Sudan's Maritime Ports Authority Dr Abdul Hafiz Saleh Ali signed the minutes of the meeting at an event attended by Qatar's Ambassador to Sudan HE Rashid bin Abdul Rahman al Nuiami.
The minutes of the meeting outlines a future roadmap for cooperation and general frameworks for the partnership.
Sulaiti stressed the strength of Qatari-Sudanese relations for which the foundations were laid down by the Emir HH Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani and Sudan's President Omar Hassan al Bashir.
This step, he added, would bring back Suakin Port's historic glory and make it a maritime commercial gateway and a key, vital economic platform in the region.
The minister said Saukin Port has comparative advantages and is supporting exports significantly, especially the economies of the African region. He also stressed the importance of the port's strategic location, its connection to the Silk Road and uniqueness for being a very important meeting point for exportation, particularly for neighbouring countries, which makes it a value addition for the economies.
He emphasised that the Port's development works would move at an accelerated pace to finalise its rehabilitation and development by 2020, taking into account world's latest technologies for operations, as well as environment standards.
The minister added that starting this April as a beginning for cooperation, a maritime route would be launched between Hamad Port and Suakin Port to ship Sudanese livestock, stressing that the minutes of the meeting included a powerful economic cooperation in the interest of both countries.
On his part, Awad hailed the Qatari role in supporting Sudan in all fields, nothing that it had contributed to the country's progress and economic development. He said the minutes of the meeting came within the framework of successful strategic partnerships between the two countries.
Awad said the project would provide high-quality services to all vessels on the Red Sea as Suakin Port is a new seaport for Africa and an investment source to be producing economic benefits for Sudan and serving the two countries' interests.
It would also provide Sudan with opportunities for training, capacity building and investment in all maritime transport areas, he said.