Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Foundation (QF) has announced the names of a three-person judging panel for its inaugural Akhlaquna Award, designed to recognise and celebrate young people who display exemplary moral character toward the good of humanity.
The panel will be responsible for assessing a range of projects and initiatives, submitted by the public and created by individuals who strive to serve the greater need of the community.
The judges are Dr Emad El-Din Shahin, Dean of College of Islamic Studies at Hamad Bin Khalifa University; Amal al Mannai, Chief Executive Officer of the Qatar Foundation for Social Work; and Dr Jassim al Sultan, Director General at the Wijdan Cultural Centre, part of the Ministry of Culture and Sports.
Machaille al Naimi, president of Community Development, QF, said:"We are delighted to announce such an esteemed panel of judges for our first-ever Akhlaquna Award, an exciting initiative that aims to inspire the entire community and empower the next generation of leaders in Qatar. Our jury has been specifically chosen to identify individuals who personalise universal values such as mercy, tolerance, honesty and generosity and to ensure that these people can receive the support and guidance they need in order to build a better society."
QF is accepting nominations for the 2018 Akhlaquna Award, which launched last month, through its dedicated website: 'www.akhlaquna.qa'.
Members of the public are invited to recommend individuals between the ages of 15-35, or initiatives which they believe are eligible for the award. The submission deadline for nominations has been extended to midnight on Saturday (April 7).
The panel of judges will produce a shortlist of three finalists on April 10 with the winner of the inaugural Akhlaquna Award to be announced during QF Convocation 2018, scheduled to take place on May 1.
Nominees for the initiative can be Qatari nationals or residents in Qatar and can include local or international initiatives which do not need to be based in the country. The scope of the submitted initiatives should include characteristics that personify one or more of the selected universal values.
The Akhlaquna Award was first announced by Her Highness Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, Chairperson of Qatar Foundation, during QF's Convocation 2017 ceremony. For further information, visit the Akhlaquna Award website, or on Facebook at Akhlaquna Qatar, Twitter @akhlaqunaqa and Instagram @akhlaquna.