Tribune News Network
Doha
A delegation from the Public Works Authority (Ashghal) is participating in the ongoing Pavement Preservation and Recycling Summit (PPRS) 2018 in Nice, France, which will conclude on Wednesday (today).
Ashghal's delegation to the summit includes a group of senior officials headed by President of the Public Works Authority Dr Engineer Saad bin Ahmed al Muhannadi.
Ashghal's participation in the summit is part of its endeavour to open opportunities for cooperation and investment in the road sector and recycling of construction materials.
Within the summit, Ashghal has signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with ANAS for opening of e-library on Ashghal's web portal to offer electronic books in the fields of civil engineering and technical tests.
Muhannadi also signed an MoU with Susanna Zammataro, executive director of International Roads Federation (IRF) Geneva, for cooperation in the field of construction recycling, as IRF is considered as pioneer in measuring the environmental impact of road recycling.
Besides, Ashghal president signed another MoU with VINCI Construction Grands Projects to cooperate in the field of recycling of construction materials.
The PPRS 2018 summit focuses on identifying effective and innovative ways for better maintenance and modernisation of roads, identifying best practices in this field and conducting workshops to discuss opportunities offered by new techniques in roads and recycling.
Ashghal's initiatives to promote recycling of construction materials contribute to the formation of a sustainable platform for the development of local infrastructure as it also paves the way for the reuse of valuable resources to reduce volume of imported stones and bitumen from abroad and to reduce cost reduction and promote quick delivery of projects.
It noteworthy that Qatar National Strategy 2017-2022 aims at using at least 20 percent of recycled materials to reduce the cost of raw materials in road construction in Qatar by 30 percent and to use environment friendly building materials in line with the Qatar National Vision 2030.
It is worth mentioning that Ashghal has planned to recycle three million tonnes of asphalt waste over the next two years, and is working with ANAS to increase the proportion of recycled materials and use them in projects in a range of 15 to 50 percent to be included in the specifications of QCS 2018.