Tribune News Network
DOHA
After clinching the historic Arab Indoor Rowing Championship 2000m Paddling gold medal with her personal best time, Qatar's rising rower Tala Abu Jabara is seeking to raise the bar and strike a medal in the upcoming Asian Games in Jakarta, Indonesia.
Eight countries contested in the paddling event in which Tala produced her best-ever time of 7:02.7 minutes to clinch the gold medal, beating UAE's Amana Khalfan. This is the second medal for Tala in the Arab Championship, having bagged the bronze medal in the 2017 edition in Tunisia.
Abdullah al Sulaiti, President of Qatar Sailing and Kayaking Federation (QSKF), led the reception for the young athlete after her return from Kuwait and expressed hope that she would certainly bring more medals for Qatar at the international level.
Tala said it was easy to aim for the medal but to realise the dream would require a lot of effort. The 25-year old said:"It would be amazing to win a gold medal at the Asian Games.
"It was a great honour to do well in Kuwait. The federation has always supported me and I will continue to aim for more glory."
"I had put in a great deal of effort in the event held in Kuwait. The hard work that I did helped me win the medal despite tough competition from other contestants," Tala added.
Tala will continue her training in France to improve her fitness levels."I have a big ambition to fly the flag of my country. I want to add more medals to the Arab title by working harder in the future."
Sulaiti said:"Tala is a rare sporting talent. She has great skills that allow her to dominate her rivals. All she needs is more support and encouragement from us. We are confident that she will continue to improve at the top level."
The QSKF chief expressed happiness at the feat of Tala as it is the first big achievement since Waleed al Sharshani pulled off the silver medal in the 2006 Asian Games in Doha.
Sulaiti also added that Tala's historic result was the outcome of the careful planning by the Qatar Olympic Committee (QOC) to back home-grown talent.