Qatar Foundation Promotes Community Engagement through Events Posted on Comments 
Qatar Foundation (QF) has placed the entire community on top of its agenda, with a full programme of events designed to inspire the public to become active, engaged citizens. 
Torba Farmers Market: This year saw the continuation of the hugely popular Torba Farmers Market at the Ceremonial Court in Education City. With summer fast approaching, the market will now open on Friday and Saturday evenings, from 5 pm to 10 pm, until the end of April. Each weekend, the market will bring together 30 vendors as well as thousands of community members from around the country, supporting local food producers and agriculture. This Qatar initiative offers a wide range of produce including freshly-baked goods, fruit and vegetables, homemade preserves, syrups, butters, and handicrafts and gardening supplies. 
QF President of Community Development Machaille Al-Naimi said that the decision to extend the market for another month is due to its popularity and the positive feedback from the community. 
At QF, our community development programmes are central to everything we do, and Torba Farmers Market is just one example of how we strive to meet the needs of our society, strengthen Qatari culture, and foster social engagement.’ 
Chef’s Garden: To support local food producers, Chef’s Garden – located in Al Shaqab – is hosting a Farmers Brunch every Friday, from 12:30 pm to 3:30 pm. Fun activities also await the whole family. 
EC Running Series: QF recently launch of its ‘EC Running Series’, bringing together runners from all over the country to Education City. The run will be repeated this April, featuring distances of 3 km, 5 km, 10 km, and 21 km. The races aim to give runners the opportunity to explore Education City, and its Oxygen Park. 
Oxygen Park: QF is also inviting the public to enjoy the facilities at Oxygen Park, a 130,000-square-metre open space that incorporates sports and recreation areas, including football fields, running tracks, airconditioned covered walkways, and beach volleyball courts. 
Qatar National Library: As part of QF’s community-inspired activities to support learning, creativity and cultural development, the Qatar National Library (QNL) is hosting a diverse range of activities all year-round such as concerts, lectures and reading events, designed to educate and entertain through as many channels as possible. 
For more information about the various events and activities organised by Qatar Foundation, visit their website through this link .