Qatar Foundation Announces Panel for Akhlaquna Award Posted on Comments 
Qatar Foundation (QF) has announced the names of a three-person judging panel for its inaugural Akhlaquna Award , designed to recognise and celebrate young people who display exemplary moral character for the good of humanity. 
The panel will be responsible for assessing a range of projects and initiatives, submitted by the public and created by individuals who strive to serve the greater need of the community. The judges include Dr Emad El-Din Shahin , Dean of the College of Islamic Studies at Hamad Bin Khalifa University; Amal Al Mannai , Chief Executive Officer of Qatar Foundation for Social Work; and Dr Jassim Al Sultan , Director General at the Wijdan Cultural Centre of the Ministry of Culture and Sports. (From left) Dr Emad El-Din Shahin, Amal Al Mannai, and Dr Jassim Al Sultan 
QF President of Community Development Machaille Al-Naimi said they are delighted to announce such an esteemed panel of judges for the first-ever Akhlaquna Award. 
Our jury has been specifically chosen to identify individuals who personalise universal values – mercy, tolerance, honesty, and generosity – and to ensure that these people receive the support and guidance they need in order to build a better society.’ 
QF is still accepting nominations for the 2018 Akhlaquna Award, which launched last month, through its dedicated website. Members of the public are invited to recommend individuals 15 to 35 years old; or initiatives which they believe are eligible for the award. Deadline for submission of nominations is extended until midnight of 7 April. 
The panel of judges will choose three finalists on 10 April – with the winner to be announced on 1 May during the QF Convocation 2018 . 
Nominees for the initiative can be Qatari nationals or residents in Qatar and can include local or international initiatives which need not be based in Qatar. Submitted initiatives should include characteristics that personify one or more of the selected universal values. 
Visit the Akhlaquna Award website for more information. You can also follow them on Facebook , Twitter and Instagram .