Qatar Airways Touches Down in Thessaloniki for the First Time Posted on Comments 
Qatar Airways’ first flight to Thessaloniki, the second-largest city in Greece, touched down at Thessaloniki International Airport Makedonia , as the airline’s Airbus A320 arrived to a traditional water cannon salute and a welcome ceremony for the VIP guests. 
The new four times-weekly service from Doha to the airline’s second gateway in Greece commenced just one month ahead of the launch of its third destination in Greece, the beautiful island of Mykonos. 
Qatar Airways Group Chief Executive Akbar Al Baker said the new service to Thessaloniki will help reinforce links between Qatar and Greece. Thessaloniki is a major tourist destination all year round, offering access to some of Greece’s most famous resorts. 
Alexander Zinell, Fraport Greece Chief Executive Officer, said they are delighted to welcome Qatar Airways to Thessaloniki. 
The decision by our new airline partner, Qatar Airways, is a clear indication of the Thessaloniki ‘Makedonia’ Airport growth potential. Passengers from Northern Greece and the Balkans can now benefit from direct flights linking Thessaloniki with Doha and beyond. We look forward to working closely with Qatar Airways.’ 
Qatar Airways has been operating flights to Athens since June 2005 and in 2015 increased its service to the Greek capital from twice daily to three times daily to meet the growing demand. The Athens route is operated by a mix of the airline’s state-of-the-art aircraft, including the Boeing 787 Dreamliner . This year (in January), Qatar Airways was also the first airline to bring the Airbus A350 to the city. The first flights to Thessaloniki will be operated by an Airbus A320 aircraft, featuring 12 seats in Business Class and 132 seats in Economy Class. 
Qatar Airways’ robust growth strategy in Europe continues, with service to Mykonos commencing in May. The launch of these additional two gateways into Greece confirms the airline’s strong commitment to boosting tourism in Greece, especially from regions with strong Greek populations such as Australia and the Middle East. With the launch of service to Mykonos, the airline will operate 58 times a week between Hamad International Airport (HIA) and Greece. 
The new gateway will connect Thessaloniki to Qatar Airways’ global network, through its state-of-the-art hub in Doha, to more than 150 business and leisure destinations including Qatar, Australia, Thailand, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Maldives, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Philippines and Vietnam. 
Qatar Airways is one of the fastest-growing airlines operating one of the youngest fleets in the world, with a modern fleet of more than 200 aircraft flying to business and leisure destinations across six continents. 
Doha – Thessaloniki Flight Schedule (Tuesday, Thursday, Saturday and Sundays): 
Doha (DOH) to Thessaloniki (SKG) QR205 Departs: 7:40 am Arrives: 12:50 pm Thessaloniki (SKG) to Doha (DOH) QR206 Departs: 1:50 pm Arrives: 6:40 pm 
For more information and updates on Qatar Airways, visit their website through this link .