Comments 
The XC90’s handsome style masks a technical masterclass, as Volvo again raised the bar for big SUV efficiency, comfort and safety. It stunned the world when it came on the scene and the world came to appreciate Volvo’s design language, its innovation and its benchmark interior of quality. 
The XC90 is still beautiful and is now available with different engines and a range of trim and options with the well-equipped Inscription, the sporty R-Design and the introductory Momentum. 
The interior is not only beautiful, it’s absolutely gorgeous. It has expensive-feeling materials and fabrics that you want to touch, to feel, like a silk scarf or a cashmere sweater. The clean and simple dashboard design exhibits elegant lines, and again everything is pleasant to the touch. The open-grain wood reminds you of real nature, the dials and buttons provide satisfying clicks, and the buttery leather seats make sitting in traffic a scene of relaxation, not frustration. 
There is a feeling of an open cabin; in fact, interior space is another area where the XC90 excels. It’s shorter and narrower than some rivals on the outside but is better when it comes to legroom and headroom on the inside; the glass area is large and gives wonderful panoramic visibility. Apple CarPlay and Android Auto are now standard. Volvo’s Sensus infotainment system, which controls everything on a sharp and clear nine-inch centre touchscreen, puts out astounding sound from the premium Bowers & Wilkins Hi-Fi system. 
The XC90 now comes standard with more safety technology as well, including Volvo’s Pilot Assist semi-autonomous driving technology with adaptive cruise control and blind-spot monitoring. 
How does Volvo remain distinctive? By paying equal attention to good design, exterior and interior, using quality materials like Nappa leather, by respecting the environment and even improving it, and, most importantly, by proclaiming its vision that by 2020 no one should be killed or seriously injured in or by a Volvo car. ENGINE Two-litre supercharged and turbocharged DOHC, 16 valves, variable valve timing MAX POWER 316 hp (235kW) @ 5,700 MAX TORQUE 400 Nm/295 lb-ft from 2,200 rpm ACCELERATION 0 – 100 kph in 6.3 secs DRIVELINE Geartronic 8-speed shiftable smooth automatic with responsive All-Wheel-Drive (AWD) EXTERIOR The impression created by this handsome, tough-looking Swede was totally impressive and achieved without gimmicks or weird styling. The new XC90 is a straight guy with just a hint of sleek fashion in the slightly sloping bonnet and flared rear fenders; the grille is proud and flat, ‘Thor’s Hammer’ distinctive LED daytime running lights reflect current cinema blockbuster hits and legendary Scandinavian power INTERIOR Beautifully detailed, top quality leather and wood trim give the XC90 unmatchable elegance; distinctively Volvo style, with more room than anybody else, positively asserts calm reassurance; beautiful dashboard and excellent centre screen, as large as an iPad, proclaim the modern era where car and phone are seamlessly interconnected; fabulous Bowers & Wilkins Hi-Fi; CleanZone emphasises clean environment aims SAFETY/SECURITY Volvo continues to introduce ‘World First’ safety features adding to the industry-leading visionary technologies preventing accidents and protecting all those involved; check it out at the showroom on Khalifa Street Volvo XC90 R-Design 
WHERE CAN I SEE IT 
Khalifa Street is where you can touch, and feel, a new Volvo for yourself; staff will be happy to arrange a test drive of the new Volvo XC90 Inscription or any of its cars and SUVs for Marhaba readers. Call 4424 6860 or visit their website at volvo.com.qa