Genesis to Launch G70 Model in the Middle East this April Posted on Comments 
Luxury car brand Genesis has confirmed its G70 luxury sport sedan is set to arrive in the Middle East this April. G70 will be the third Genesis model to arrive in the region, extending the brand’s range of passenger sedans alongside the flagship large G90 and mid-sized G80. In Qatar, Skyline Automotive is the official distribution partner of the Genesis brand. 
Genesis General Manager for Africa and the Middle East, Altar Yilmaz said: 
The G70 will further enhance customer appeal of the Genesis range, offering the style, comfort, and refined performance that is critical in a very competitive sporty segment of the premium automotive market.’ 
‘Genesis will succeed by offering a car that is distinctively different from its rivals, and one that leads the market for its combination of athletic elegance, advanced technology, and best-in-class driving performance.’ 
Unveiled globally in Korea in September 2017, The Genesis G70 is an athletic sedan with graceful and dynamic exterior styling, and elegant and intuitively designed interior. 
Middle East versions will be offered with a choice of two petrol engines: a 2.0-liter turbocharged 4-cylinder, or a turbocharged 3.3-liter V6. Both are coupled to an 8-speed automatic transmission, which is ideally matched to the powerful torque curve of the engines. The G70 also incorporates numerous advanced driver assist systems, excellent standards of occupant safety, and a high level of connectivity. 
Altar Yilmaz said: 
With the G70, Genesis now offers core products in each main luxury sedan category, and we have achieved this in little more than a year.’ 
Details of the launch are yet to be announced. Deliveries of the Genesis G70 are expected to begin in selected markets in the second quarter of 2018. 
Genesis cars are available in Qatar via Skyline Automotive. Visit their new showroom on Salwa Road. You may also c all their number 4489 1111 or visit the Genesis website