AFP
Curitiba
Gunshots fired at the bus convoy of fiery leftist former leader Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva plunged Brazil's already turbulent presidential election into dangerous new territory Wednesday.
Lula, who is fighting in the courts to avoid starting a 12-year prison sentence for corruption, was due to wind up a campaign tour through southern Brazil with a rally in the city of Curitiba.
The 10-day trip had been previously targeted by opponents throwing stones and eggs at the buses and at the two-term former president, who despite his legal problems leads polls ahead of the October 7 election.
But the gunshots late on Tuesday ramped up tension in what's already shaping up to be the most volatile leadership contest since Brazil's military dictatorship ended in 1985.
Lula and his Workers'Party said the shots were fired in an apparent ambush, with two bullets hitting one bus, one bullet hitting another, and the third bus, where Lula was traveling, escaping unscathed. No one was hurt.
Gleisi Hoffmann, leader of the Workers'Party, which Lula founded, said the incident should be investigated as a possible assassination attempt.
"We hope we will have security, that the national and state police, as well as the intelligence services, do their jobs so that we can rally in a peaceful and democratic way,"she told AFP.
Illustrating the ugly pre-election atmosphere, center-right candidate and Sao Paulo state governor Geraldo Alckmin reacted to the violence by saying that the leftists were"reaping what they sowed,"Folha newspaper reported.
On Wednesday, Alckmin rowed back, tweeting that"all forms of violence must be condemned.... The country is tired of division and calls to conflict."
There was clearer condemnation of the incident from the economy minister and possible center-right presidential candidate Henrique Meirelles. He tweeted:"What happened yesterday... was an attack on freedom of expression of a political leader and was inadmissible in a democracy."
However, there was still no reaction from Lula's closest rival in the polls, the right-wing former army captain Jair Bolsonaro, who was also due to greet supporters in Curitiba on Wednesday.
Bolsonaro, who has repeatedly praised Brazil's two-decade-long military dictatorship, taunted Lula, calling him a"bandit,"and challenging him in Curitiba to see"who can get the most people out on to the streets without paying them."
Another right-wing group, the Movement for a Free Brazil, was planning its own anti-Lula rally in the city, just a short distance from where Lula and his Workers'Party faithful were due to gather.