Tribune News Network
Doha
Naki lat recently held its fourth ‘Annual Forum’ for its Qatari employees. The event was an excellent platform for national employees to learn about the company’s career development plans and programs, interact with senior management members and have their queries addressed during the discussions.
The session also allowed senior management to gain insight into the experiences and challenges faced by Qatari developees and marine cadets during their learning process at the company.
The forum featured a series of insightful presentations and interactive sessions by both the company’s management as well as Qatari employees, highlighting the company’s Qatarisation progress and the new and ongoing initiatives for the professional development of Qatari staff.
"This initiative comes as part of the company’s robust Qatarisation programme that focuses not only on recruiting talented Qataris, but also developing our existing talent pool and enable them to reach their full potential and become key contributors to the company and Qatar’s maritime industry, in line with Qatar National Vision 2030," Nakilat said in a press statement on Wednesday.
During the session, awards were presented to graduating marine cadets sponsored by the company, and those who achieved excellent results in their studies.
Mentors and coaches of Qatari Developees were also recognised for their efforts and contribution towards developing Nakilat’s young national talents.
In 2017, Nakilat achieved a Qatarisation rate of 42 percent as compared to 37.4 percent in 2016. Through its wide-ranging Qatarisation efforts, which includes supporting the training initiatives of various educational institutions in the country, the company aims to enhance the skills and abilities of its employees while raising awareness and interest in Qatar’s rapidly developing maritime industry, the statement noted.
Nakilat Managing Director Abdullah Fadhalah al Sulaiti said, “This annual forum is an invaluable platform to reinforce the importance of Qatarisation to Nakilat, and highlights the company’s commitment in supporting our Qatari staff to achieve their professional goals.
"Ultimately, this contribution towards the sustainable development of our economy and the advancement of our people will allow us to realize the Nakilat vision, to be a global leader and provider of choice for energy transportation and maritime services.”