QNA
Doha
In a giant step towards achieving greater stability, security and safety, the Ministry of the Interior (MoI) on Wednesday launched its ambitious five-year strategy (2018-2022).
The strategy, which is in line with the Qatar National Vision 2030, aims to enhance security and stability and achieve the progress pursued by the country in light of the massive development being undertaken ahead of the 2022 FIFA World Cup.
The core objective of the plan is to contribute to hosting of a safe and secure World Cup.
With this plan, the MoI aims to be a leader at the regional and international level in its field.
The 10 objectives of the strategy are to achieve security and reduce crime rate, protect life and property, protect society from drugs, ensure road safety and reduce fatalities, develop national electronic security shield, develop human skills and capabilities, optimise the utilisation of financial and technical resources, strengthen the relationship with the community, raise the efficiency for securing the coasts, and protecting and securing vital facilities.
In a statement, Director General of Public Security Major General Saad bin Jassim al Khulaifi stressed the importance of the strategy to achieve the development pursued by Qatar.
"Ensuring security and stability is the top priority. As a result of the increasing challenges and conflicts and the spread of terrorism, there is a need to develop the security system to tackle the new challenges," he said.
"The strategy is a result of study of the current situation that we are experiencing. It has taken into account the effects associated with the economic renaissance witnessed by Qatar, which requires enhancement of security," he added.
In preparation for the 2022 World Cup, the core objective of the 2018-2022 strategy is to contribute to host a secure World Cup 2022, which indicates the focus of the strategy is on unifying the ministry's efforts to support the event.
He said that the current strategy focuses greatly on upgrading the security system to achieve security and stability and improve and develop services in accordance with international quality standards and continue the modernisation and development of the Ministry of Interior to complement the previous efforts that began in the Ministry's strategy 2011-2016.