Tribune News Network
Doha
Despit e the global economic slowdown, and the illegal blockade imposed on Qatar, Zad Holding Company has managed to maintain good performance in 2017, registering solid growth of 18.3 percent (in net profit), from QR167.6 million in 2016 to QR198.3 million in 2017, the company's Vice Chairman Sheikh Talal bin Mohammed bin Jabor al Thani has said.
Speaking at the company's ordinary annual general meeting (AGM) and extraordinary general meeting (EGM) in Doha on Wednesday, Sheikh Talal said the company has been reinvesting a major portion of its profits into modernising and upgrading its various production facilities to achieve higher yields, greater efficiency, increased flexibility, and reduced labour costs.
"As a result of this strategy, the company has been in a position to not only fulfill the supply- gap caused by the blockade, but also maintain stable consumer price levels," he said.
On further investments in capacity expansion, Sheikh Talal said, “All planned expansions to our various factories have already been completed. With the existing production capacities and capabilities, we can easily satisfy current and near future market requirements of Qatar”.
"Zad Holding will continue to focus on its core businesses i.e. packaged food consumer goods, due to its strategic importance to the country," he noted.
The AGM approved the board of director’s recommendation for a dividend distribution of 65 percent cash and 10 percent bonus shares.
Zad’s operations include manufacturing and distributing fast-moving-consumer-goods (FMCG), real estate management, contracting and logistics services, and production of asphalt and concrete.
Tarique Mohammad, CEO of Zad Holding said, “2017 has been an extremely eventful year for us, especially in the latter half, where the country experienced an embargo.
"Since the very beginning of the blockade, Zad has been taking measures to ensure the uninterrupted availability of all finished goods produced by its subsidiaries, without compromising on the quality and with no increase in prices, by sourcing the ingredients cost effectively from alternative suppliers through alternate channels."
Regarding the future plans, the CEO said, “With Qatar’s growing demand for quality goods, Zad has plans to launch new products into the market as it has already invested heavily into enhancing its research and development and production capabilities over the past few years.
“This will push the agenda to make Qatar more self-reliant in the packaged foods arena.”