QNA
Doha
THE Ministry of Interior (MoI) aims to be a leader in its field by achieving stable security and excellence in performance.
The MoI launched its strategy for the period 2018-2022 in Doha on Wednesday, within the Qatar National Vision 2030 framework, to enhance the concept of security and stability and to achieve the progress pursued by the State in light of the massive development currently taking place and expected in the future, while its core objective is to contribute to host a secure FIFA World Cup 2022.
In a press statement, Director General of Public Security Major-General Saad bin Jassim al Khulaifi stressed the importance of the MoI's strategy 2018-2022 in achieving the development pursued by the State of Qatar. He said the strategy is resulting from studying the current situation and has taken into account the effects associated with the economic renaissance witnessed by Qatar, which requires a great deal of enhancement in security and stability. In preparation for FIFA World Cup 2022, the core objective of the 2018-2022 strategy is to contribute to host a secure tournament which indicates the focus of the strategy to unify the Ministry's efforts to support the event.
Director of Planning and Quality Department Brigadier Abdul Rahman Majid al Sulaiti explained the achievements of the security and safety sector strategy in the period of 2011-2016. He added that the percentage of completion of objectives of the first strategy is more than 90.
He highlighted that the death rate of traffic accidents decreased to 6.8 deaths per 100,000 people from 13.7, while the target rate was 10 deaths (per 100,000 people). As well as the rate of fire which fell to 30.5 fires per 100 thousand people as opposed to 75 fires, while the strategy sought to reduce the rate by about half. The current strategy seeks to achieve further achievements in these indicators, he added.
In terms of global indicators, Qatar achieved qualitative achievements, ranked second in the Arab world and 25th in the world competitiveness index of 137 countries, and the first Arab and sixth globally in the index of combating organised crime.
In the Global Peace Index, Qatar ranked first on the Arab level and 30 on the world level among 163 countries, while it ranked first in the Arab world and the ninth in the world, in the index of satisfaction and confidence in the public services provided. Qatar ranked first in the Middle East and the Arab region in the index of low crime rates and seventh globally in this indicator.
On his part, Director General of Civil Defense Brigadier Abdullah Mohammed al Suwaidi said this strategy is a continuation of the 2011-2016 initiative, which contributed in many achievements in civil defense. He revealed that the achievements in the Civil Defense sector included reducing the rate of fire as per international standards and supporting development projects of the defense fleet of Civil Defense.
For his part, Director General of the General Directorate of Traffic Brigadier Mohamed Saad al Kharji said that the MoI's strategy 2018-2022 was in line with the requirements of the strategy of the National Committee for Traffic Safety in adopting programmes and projects aimed at improving traffic safety on the road and reducing the number of traffic accidents, resulting in injuries and deaths.
He pointed out that the Ministry's previous strategy has contributed significantly to reducing the number of accidents from 34 accidents per 100 thousand people to 30.5 accidents, including reducing traffic accidents deaths from 13.7 deaths per 100 thousand people in 2011 to 6.8 deaths in the first strategy by 2016-end.
He added that the previous strategy also supported the awareness programmes carried out by the General Directorate of Traffic and contributed to raising awareness among the public through many awareness programmes that have been implemented.
He said that the current strategy of the ministry has set a strategic objective of achieving road safety. This goal is based on the abnormal growth rates of the population in the country. This increase was accompanied by an increase in the number of vehicles and an increase in the use of roads which is a matter of concern for ministry officials.
Director-General of the General Directorate of Drug Control Brigadier Ahmed Khalifa al Kuwari said that the current strategy 2018-2022 includes a goal to protect the society from drugs, focusing on the continuous monitoring and control of the State's ports, in coordination with the relevant authorities to reduce the supply and demand of drugs in the State.