Tribune News Network
Doha
THE World Innovation Summit for Health (WISH), an initiative of Qatar Foundation,has joined forces with Hamad Medical Corporation (HMC) to launch 'Nursing Now Qatar'.
The Qatar chapter of Nursing Now, a global campaign run in collaboration with the International Council of Nurses and the World Health Organization (WHO), is the first of its kind in the Arabian Gulf region.
Nursing Now Qatar was announced on the final day of the Middle East Forum for Quality and Safety in Healthcare, held in Doha from March 23 to 25. The campaign aims to improve healthcare globally by raising the profile and status of nurses worldwide;influencing policy-makers;and supporting nurses to lead, learn and build a global movement.
Qatar's Nursing Now group has received the support and endorsement of Qatar's Minister of Public Health HE Dr Hanan Mohamed al Kuwari.
Speaking of the important role played by nurses both in Qatar and around the world, Dr Kuwari said:"I am proud of our nurses who bring a unique and valuable set of competences and experience that are relevant to the diverse population groups we care for in Qatar. This global campaign plays a vital role in our efforts to profile the professionalism of nurses and midwives in our health sector, and will help to promote this important profession among Qatari nursing professionals."
Sultana Afdhal, CEO of WISH, announced the formation of a Nursing Now committee, which will be headed by Dr Nicola Ryley, chief nursing officer, HMC, with support from Mariam Nooh al Mutawa, executive director of nursing, HMC, during the forum's plenary session.
Afdhal said:"WISH was privileged to be part of the Nursing Now campaign's global launch in London and it was inspiring to witness the heartfelt passion for nursing by all involved, and the desire to promote awareness of the vital role nurses and midwives play in shaping global healthcare."
Nursing Now board member Maureen Bisognano from the Institute of Healthcare Improvement, who reviewed the five strategic priorities for the Nursing Now campaign, was also present during the announcement.
Messages of encouragement were received from Elizabeth Iro, chief nursing officer, WHO, and representatives of the nursing community of Jordan, who will be launching Nursing Now Jordan in the coming months.
Dr Ryley said:"The Qatar chapter of the campaign offers an invaluable opportunity for us to profile of nursing and midwifery in this country,which is aligned with international best practice for nursing and midwifery healthcare professionals."
Nursing and Universal Health Coverage will be one of nine research topics that will form the focus of WISH 2018.