Ailyn Agonia
Doha
AROUND 15 exhibitors comprised of local and international entrepreneurial and social models with green economy perspectives are presenting their works at the Makerspace Initiative on Green Economy, Business and Entrepreneurship in Qatar which opened at Education City Student Centre in Doha on Wednesday.
The two-day event is organised by Hamad Bin Khalifa University (HBKU) in collaboration with various local entities. It is an initiative under Innovation Space which is a cornerstone project of HBKU. It gathers around 16 guests from countries like Turkey, Malaysia, Singapore, Canada and different parts of the Middle East.
"One of the important aspects of the event is being a community-building event showing how ethics and practices of green economy come together and are quite important in creating innovative, and at the same time, an ethical economy. Entrepreneurship, environment, innovation and community partnerships are the key words that we are trying to emphasise at this event. It's a makerspace because we are making things. We need to make things because Qatar is working to shift to knowledge-based economy and in order to do it we have to work collectively. This event is showcasing the need for collective action," Dr Mohamed Evren Tok, HBKU's College of Islamic Studies Assistant Dean of Innovation, told the local media on the occasion.
Dr Tok further said that the event brings together young green entrepreneurs from the country and abroad to share their expertise and journey on green initiatives from various perspectives including using green materials and design in construction, reuse of recycled materials, use of cutting-edge technologies in farming as well as use of green initiatives by humanitarian aid organisations in various refugee camps.
Among the featured activities in the event is the exhibition 'Living off the Land' showing how different people rely on nature to survive whether out of choice or need. It includes photographs taken by graduates of HBKU during an educational and humanitarian trip to Bangladesh organised in collaboration with Qatar Charity and demonstrations on how bamboo is used in many aspects of the daily life of Rohingya refugees. A section of the exhibit is dedicated to the service learning trip of VCUarts Qatar students in Thailand in 2016,while the exhibitors include Elite Paper Recycling, Global Farm for Agricultural Supplies and Q e-waste.
"This is an important initiative that reflects the objective of integrating and combining entrepreneurship, environment, innovation and community participation all under one project. You see levels of participation at the theoretical, academic level where you know experts and scholars will participate with their views about the future economy and green, safe economy while at the same time having entrepreneurial aspects," said Prof. Dr Emad El Din Shahin, Dean of College of Islamic Studies at HBKU.
He also underscored the relevance of such event in view of the current situation in the region.
"Qatar has dealt with the blockade in an extremely proactive way that it turned what could be an attempt to pressure Qatar into moving forward to think strategically and also to implement strategically when it comes to food security and future planning and making Qatar still an attractive destination for education, entrepreneurship and for investments," he added.
The event is also supported by Qatar Development Bank, Quranic Botanical Garden, Qatar National Research Fund, Al Jaber Green Construction, Qatar Green Building Council, among other entities.