Tribune News Network
Doha
Toastmasters of Division 'J' conducted their annual conference at Al-Fayrouz Ballroom of the Doha Marriott Hotel. Division J Toastmasters in Qatar has over 430 members spread over 17 Clubs grouped in four areas, and boasts of a multi-cultural mix of members.
The Master of Ceremonies for the first half, Chandrashekar Angadi, captured the audience with his lively personality.
Conference Chair Sudhir Gujar welcomed everyone and invited Division J Director Venkatesan Kuandaivelu to open the conference. He welcomed the delegates, special guests and all Toastmasters present. He gave an insight into the progress of Division J as a whole, and recognised all Area Directors in their efforts to make the Division as President Distinguished Division.
Thereafter, a banner parade was held wherein leaders from the Division, Area and Clubs participated, showcasing their clubs' proud achievements during the course of the year. TM Rangamani Ravi coordinated the entire parade with great aplomb.
Media personality Anshu Jain was the Master of Ceremonies for the second half, and she gracefully captured the attention of all, delighting them with charm and `lan!
A special keynote presentation was conducted by Maryann Pietersz, a vocal coach and music instructor from IAID. The keynote presentation, Discover your VoicePrint, was an interactive and engaging presentation which introduced the audience to the four systems of speech and using them appropriately.
Speech contests are a Toastmasters Tradition, and at Transcend 2018, the event consisted of four categories: Speech Evaluation Contest, Humorous Speech Contest, Table Topics speech contest, and the International Speech Contest. Qualification for the contest began at the Club level and then progressed to the Area level wherein, each Area ensured they had two participants per category of contest for Transcend. The winners of the respective contests were awarded a trophy and certificate, and each 1st place winner will now represent Division J at the District 20 Toastmasters Annual Conference Speech Contest which will be held in Kuwait on May 11 and 12, 2018.
The vote of thanks was delivered by Event Chair Sudhir Gujar and the conference was adjourned with closing remarks from Division J Director Venkatesan Kulandaivelu.
Sponsors of the event were M/s Planet Tech, M/s Axiom International WLL, M/s Don Construction Products, M/s IAID, M/s Teyseer Group, M/s Al-Tawfeeq Travels & M/s MBR Trading Company.
A special raffle draw was also held, courtesy Planet Tec.