Tribune News Network
DOHA
The Qatar Superstock 600 returns at the Losail International Circuit this weekend after more than one month's break.
With only two more rounds to go, defending QSTK champion Qatar's Saeed al Sulaiti is leading the standings with only four points ahead of Mashel al Naimi.
For Sulaiti, who has 130 points to his credit, this round is very crucial as it can decide the championship.
"The results of this weekend will be very important for the championship. The fight is close after I crashed in Round 2 and I lost a lot of points which has given Mashel the motivation to come back," said Sulaiti.
"I can see that he has been working hard and the outcome of the official test proves this. However I too want to win again and expect a fight for the points. I hope we give all the fans a great show and let the best man win!," added Sulaiti.
"I also wish to everybody a safe and exciting race and many thanks to the QMMF and Losail Circuit Sports Club for this championship. I want to thank my sponsor Ooredoo for supporting me," Sulaiti added.
Naimi is very confident after the positive results of his last test and looking forward to the last rounds of the championship."I am ready for this round and I think that I am better than what I was in the previous rounds. During the last test, I did some changes, I did good lap times and felt comfortable with the bike. I hope I can do the same during this round," he said.
"I just need a little time to make a good setup for the actual weather as for this round, the weather will be warmer than previous rounds. On last track day, I felt good with the tyres in a hot weather conditions. I hope I can be fast and win both races so I can reduce the gap in the championship," Naimi added.
Nasser al Malki is holding the third position in the standings with 96 points and Abdullah al Qubaisi follows him with 79 points. Fahad al Sowaidi and B'e1lint Kovacs are fifth and sixth with 69 and 60 points, respectively.
The Hungarian young rider Kovacs is excited and looking forward to the weekend."I hope I can step up my efforts in the championship so that I can finish better. It has been a long time since the last race. I had a lot of trainings, so I think I am ready to do better on the track.
"The last podium gave me a big happiness and I will try to push to earn a podium again. It's awesome for me to race in Qatar and I am glad to participate in the championship," Kovacs added.
In the QSTK Trophy, Soud al Thani is on the top with 130 points and Essa al Mutawa is second with 120 points. Kuwaiti rider Mohammad al Zaidan is in third with 86 points.
On Friday, QSTK track activity will start at 10:15 with the Free Practice 1, followed by Free Practice 2 at 13:15. The Superpole 1 and 2 are scheduled at 15:15.
On Saturday, the QSTK Race 1 is scheduled at 11:30 and Race 2 at 15:30. There is free entrance for all the fans at the grandstand and also at the Paddock.