Tribune News Network
Doha
Abdullah Abdulghani & Bros (AAB), the exclusive distributor of Toyota and Lexus, concluded its second AAB Treasure Hunt in collaboration with the Public Parks Department of the Ministry of Municipality and Environment (PPD-MME) recently.
The AAB Treasure Hunt 2018 is a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative to create awareness on environmental care, to promote the public parks in Qatar and to highlight road safety.
Unlike common understanding of a treasure hunt where speed on the road is key, the AAB Treasure Hunt is not a race as the winners were chosen based on the lowest amount of time completing the challenges in the Parks.
The event was met with great success, as the participation doubled this year compared to the first one with around 120people participating in total. The AAB Treasure Hunt could be described as a thrilling and high adrenaline activity, where everyone who joined had a fruitful time exploring five out of 87 public parks in Qatar such as Gharafa Family, Al Legtaifiya, Al Dafna, Busamra and Al Thumama.
In addition, it was an educational session as they solved environmental brain teasers, completed park challenges and searched for the hidden treasures.
AAB Treasure Hunt has become more than just a competition in managing time. It is about the members in the community putting the effort aiming to prove that teamwork and passion can overcome all limitations and bring the best results. The success story of this CSR event was when the team with the lowest ranking last year became the Treasure Hunt Champion this year.
It shows the power of believing in one's self and that a Never- Give-up Attitude conquers all.
The teams truly embraced the AAB's fundamental value of teamwork.
The ministry has gone through a lot of effort and processes to revive and renovate existing parks and add new locations across Qatar that serve as a family hub with ample space for families to enjoy nature as well as for children to have safe play areas. Participating teams were surprised to discover how well equipped the Parks were with sports facilities and children's area.
Some of them claimed that it was the first time for them to go to the designated parks. They have come to appreciate the role of the Public Parks Department and the Ministry's unparalleled effort of providing the residents of Qatar a variety of well-master planned recreation areas.
RK Murugan, AAB's Acting Chief Executive Officer and COO-Automotive Division, flagged off the first batch of participants at the start of the Treasure Hunt. Mazin Taha, AAB Rent A Car (RAC) Director, and Dalia Sallam, representative of the Public Parks Department, were present during the awarding ceremony.
Prior to the announcement of the winners, results were verified by an independent committee.
Winners received valuable prizes for their efforts. Special prizes were also given to the four teams that managed to deliver successfully the challenges of best selfie, best song, best team park photo and best social media effort.
On the heels of last year's event, all the participants of the AAB Treasure Hunt 2018 had a truly enjoyable, uplifting and entertaining experience.
The event is full of positive messages on what is essential in being in a team. The treasures that the participants had to figure out this year were"Treasure Words" like"Friendship","Harmony","Peace","Solidarity" and"Love". Through this experience, it shows how working together makes achieving any goal much easier at a lesser amount of time.
AAB Treasure Hunt is looking forward to the next year's epic adventure, strongly willing to show that it's a great opportunity for people to show their best skills while spending their day in an educational and fun way with nature.
AAB is committed to building and developing sustainable communities through its CSR initiatives that promote and support Qatar National Vision 2030.