Satyendra Pathak
Doha
Construction works on the Phase II of the Al Furjan Markets project has begun. This was announced by Qatar Development Bank (QDB) on Wednesday.
The QDB, which is handling all construction works for the project, will build 32 markets in remote corners of Qatar as part of the second phase of the project.
Providing further details about the upcoming Furjan markets at a press conference, QDB CEO Abdulaziz bin Nasser al Khalifa said that the work on the Phase II of the project has begun with the construction of six markets that will house 78 shops.
Two markets will be located in Muaither south (16 shops), one each in Jerian Jenihat (21 shops), Umm Qarn (16 shops), Kharaitiyat (7 shops) and Al Khor (10 shops).
While the six markets are expected to be completed within 12 months, the remaining 26 are in the design stage, he said.
The bank is in the process of finalising construction permits and approvals for the markets. The implementation tender is expected to be released in the second quarter of 2018.
The proposed 26 markets will be located in Umm Lekhba, Al Gharaffa, Izghawa, Bani Hajer, Luaib/Al Muhajirah, Al Aziziya, Muaither north, Bu Sidra, Ain Khalid (2 lands), Umm Al Saneem (3 lands), Al Sakhama, Saina Al-Humaidi, Al Thakhira, Madinat Al Kaaban, Madinat ash Shamal, Rawdat Rashed, Al Karaana, Al Wakra, Al Utouriya, Lkhreeb, Al ghwairyya, Al Rayyan Al Jadeed, Aba Al Hiran and Ain Sinan.
Construction of the 26 markets is expected to be complete in the second half of 2019, Khalifa said.
A number of initiatives have been taken to support the shop owners like increasing the size of shops, accommodation for employees, easier access for entry and exit, and reasonable rents for shops, he added.
The idea of Al Furjan markets is not commercial, he said, adding that the concept is to serve remote areas of the country by catering to the daily needs of the residents living there."We will try our best to lower the operation cost for shop owners in the second phase," he said.
Allocation of shops to Qatari nationals at the 32 markets will be done through raffle draw, he said.
"The Phase II of the Al Furjan markets will further benefit citizens and will support the growth and competitiveness of the business sector," Khalifa said.
The press conference was also attended by Al Furjan Markets Project Director Abdul Rahman al Suwaidi and Engineering and Project Management Director Yousef al Ghazal.
Considered to be one of the leading strategic projects that are targeting the consolidation of the private sector, Al Furjan Markets project are also aimed at reducing transportation costs and ease the traffic pressure on the roads of Doha.