Tribune News Network
Doha
SASOL, the international integrated chemicals and energy company, participated in the sixth edition of Qatar International Agricultural Exhibition (AgriteQ) held at the Doha Exhibition and Convention Center (DECC) from March 20 to 22.
Sasol showcased its two leading Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiatives, Accessible Qatar and Qatar e-Nature, winning recognition and a memento from Minister of Municipality and Environment HE Mohammed bin Abdullah al Rumaihi.
Sasol was recognised for supporting the exhibition as the accessibility partner. The company, through its Accessible Qatar initiative, provided sign language translators to make AgriteQ conference more accessible for the hearing-impaired and provided accessibility guidelines for building stands to make it easier for the disabled to visit the exhibition.
The DECC team conducted an accessibility audit for the exhibition stands after receiving a training session by Accessible Qatar experts.
Rumaihi visited Qatar e-Nature stand at the exhibition where he was updated on Sasol's Qatar e-Nature initiative in partnership with Friends of the Environment Center that has won four awards, including two prestigious regional awards.
The initiative, through its website www.enature.qa and smartphone application 'Qatar e-Nature', provides accurate information about Qatar's diverse environment and nature reserves, and conducts annual schools contests.
Phinda Vilakazi, president of GTL Ventures at Sasol, said:"Making major events like AgriteQ accessible to all sends a strong message about our values of inclusiveness and diversity, adds a new category of attendees and underlines everyone's right to participate in."
Jack Saba said:"Accessibility means the ability to access all venues at all times, including conferences and exhibitions like this one. Sasol strongly believes in inclusiveness and bears this in mind in all its steps. Through cooperation with key partners like the Ministry of Municipality and Environment, we can make real difference."