Sara Ali
Doha
As the alarm shrieks loudly in the quiet of dawn, the mother of the house hurriedly gets out of bed to begin the tasks for the day. She cooks breakfast, sets up the table, packs lunch boxes, lays out the uniforms, wakes up the sleepyheads, and gets them ready in time to catch the school bus.
Then it's bed tea and servings for the dear husband. After he departs for office, she finally settles down with her coffee, ready to complete the presentation and office work, when the little one wakes up demanding attention.
Mother and daughter cuddle up and have breakfast together. Then she settles her daughter with a cartoon movie so that she can tackle all the household chores and the still pending presentation. Suddenly, the dear daughter pipes in that she wants to go to the park. After being in a dilemma for some time, the mother gives in to the daughter's demands. The two of them spend an enjoyable morning together at the park, and then at home drawing and painting and trying their hand at pottery.
Lunch takes even longer when the little one decides to help her mother in the kitchen. By this time, the boys back from school hanker for their mother's attention with stories of the school day and homework. Finally, in the evening, when she sends all the three children out to play, she starts up dinner and the long pending stacks of dishes and laundry.
At this time, the father walks in, looks around at the undone work and comments that it looks like she had a lazy day. Without retorting, but, with a huge smile, the mother looks back on her day and many such lazy days which she had enjoyed with her children.
The testimony to all such days were the drawings, the baked cakes and cookies, an incomplete knitting, the umpteen videos, the backyard nursery and much more. Yes, she indeed had lazy days wherein she had made and moulded memories...memories which will last a lifetime...both for her and the children, and will be passed from a generation to another.
As parents, most often we're so busy in the routine of everyday life and in engaging our children in an endless cycle of school, classes, tutorials, coachings that we actually forget to spend quality time with our children, and by the time we realise this fact, they have already flown from the nest.
I strongly request and recommend each parent to regularly set aside time to do something fun with their children. Rather than dictating to them what not to do, teach and show them what they should do. Always strive to help them to enhance their life skills and personality, instead of just focusing on bookish knowledge. At an early age, the line for acceptable discipline and behaviour should be drawn and both parents should follow the same.
Strive to be a good listener. Make eye contact during conversations, and use verbal praise instead of monetary gifts. Always try to avoid corporal and physical punishment of any kind, and instead stick to verbal reprimands. And last, but definitely not the least, be there for your child. Remember you're making and moulding memories for a lifetime.
The author is an academician and blogger, and an avid reader of Qatar Tribune