Tribune News Network
RAGING controversies in America, Europe and India over how Cambridge Analytica used Facebook users' data to influence political behaviour of millions of people would have bemused George Orwell. The British writer and essayist died in 1951, two years after he wrote his dystopian novel '1984'. Nearly 70-years later his dystopia sounds eerily familiar. In the digital age, omnipresent surveillance, breach of privacy and 'Big Brother is Watching You' phenomena have become routine; the Internet and social media companies can eavesdrop into users' lives and homes with careless abandon.
In modern day Orwellian world, the Big Brother is not just the deep state of totalitarian governments. Non-state entities -Internet and social media giants such as Google, Facebook and Twitter have become powerful actors. The manner and the extent to which the tech giants control people's lives are at the centre of the controversies.
Millions and millions of people have access to the Internet and social media firms and they routinely share their personal data on their platforms. What they don't know or know but are blas` about them is what Internet and social media companies do with the information and how it impact users' lives. What most users also don't know is how little control they have over the information they share with social media companies.
Canadian whistle-blower Christopher Wylie who worked with Cambridge Analytica has exposed how personal data of more than 50 million Facebook users were harvested to swing voters' choices in the 2016 US presidential elections. Wylie has claimed that Cambridge Analytica and its partner companies worked for Leave campaign and influenced voters' behaviour in Brexit referendum. They also worked for Indian political parties to influence votes.
Cambridge Analytica is a British consulting firm that specialises in data mining and analysis to be used as a tool in management of elections. The company used the data collected from Facebook to analyse the users' profiles, study their psychological disposition for micro-targeting messages."We exploited Facebook to harvest millions of people's profiles and built models to exploit what we knew about them and target their inner demons", Wylie said.
Facebook initially denied have selling or sharing data with Cambridge Analytica. It maintained that users willingly provided information and that"no passwords or sensitive pieces of information were stolen or hacked". However, later it took out full-page ads in British and American newspapers to offer apology. In signed ads Facebook's founder Mark Zuckerberg admitted that,"This was a breach of trust, and I'm sorry we didn't do more at the time. We're now taking steps to make sure this doesn't happen again."
Regulators and government agencies in the US, Britain and India have got into the act to investigate the truth. Cambridge Analytica whistle-blowers deposed before British parliamentary committee and reiterated his earlier statement that the result of the Brexit referendum would have been different had it not for"cheating" by proponents of Leave campaign.
The question one needs to ask is why Facebook and other social media and Internet companies keep getting embroiled in controversies over privacy issues. And why these companies have refused to amend their privacy settings to ensure that sensitive information of millions of users don't get compromised?
The answer is not far to seek. Most of the countries have no strict privacy laws to regulate social media companies or to ensure that users' private data don't get compromised. There are no strict provisions in law to deter the Internet and social media firms from collecting data that are not germane to their needs. And there are no regulations to ensure that tech companies don't allow third-party apps or companies to harvest the data collected by them.
How lax are governments' oversights become clear when seen in the light of previous breach of Facebook data. Despite repeated allegations that fake news was spread to influence US elections with Russian collusion, Facebook dismissed the whole idea as crazy. It didn't take adequate measures to tighten its privacy settings.
Riled by the Cambridge Analytica imbroglio, Facebook on Wednesday updated access to users' settings and tools making it easier to search for, download and delete personal data stored by it. It said a new privacy shortcuts menu will allow users to quickly increase account security, manage who can see their information and activity on the site. It remains to be seen to how far the new settings and tools will go in preventing misuse of personal data by third party companies.
What's more important is that lawmakers and regulators need to strengthen privacy laws. European and the US regulators do have strict privacy laws but they have clearly failed to safeguard individuals' interests. Most of the countries outside Europe lack even basic laws to prevent misuse of data.
The Facebook-Cambridge Analytica episode must prod them to work on laws that can keep pace with rapid changes in technology. There is no other way to ensure that Orwellian dystopia doesn't become a reality. And one must understand that political misuse of personal data imperils freedom and democracy.