Ailyn Agonia
Doha
QATAR-based paper manufacturing company, Elite Paper Recycling, hopes to encourage more residents including schoolchildren to get into the habit of recycling.
The company is one of the exhibitors at the Makerspace Initiative on Green Economy, Business and Entrepreneurship in Qatar which opened at Education City Student Centre on Wednesday.
The 18,000-square-metre facility located in New Industrial Area produces 3,500 tonnes monthly of fluting and test liners, which are essential components of corrugated cartons, and egg carton from more than 100 tonnes of wastepaper it collects on a daily basis.
Aside from their vehicles that go around town 24 hours a day collecting all kinds of wastepaper, the firm has also placed over 1,500 cages in different locations across the country including in malls and schools as well as indoor bins.
"Our main objective is to change the culture in Qatar. Aside from placing bins and cages in different locations to collect wastepaper and deploy trucks for pick up, we have also partnered with more than 350 schools across the country. We are visiting schools and give presentations to teach students explaining how to segregate wastes in their schools and homes. We don't want people to look at the business side of it. We want people to focus more on the environmental aspect and care of the country," Am Rageh, Elite Paper Recycling Director, told the local media on the sidelines of the event.
Rageh said they are even accessible to residential areas who wish to get in touch with them for pickups of their wastepaper. He added that while they have been receiving positive response in their initiative to produce paper through recycling, they hope to receive more support from the community.
He said that there is a need to raise the awareness of the public on the importance of recycling which is one of the reasons they actively participate in various events and exhibitions.
Rageh also said they are open to schools who wish to visit their plants for further education on recycling among students. He mentioned their expansion plans to be able to produce boxes aside from their usual products.