QNA
Doha
PRIME Minister and Minister of Interior HE Sheikh Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa al Thani chaired the Cabinet regular meeting at the Emiri Diwan in Doha on Wednesday morning.
Following the meeting, Minister of Justice and Acting Minister of State for Cabinet Affairs HE Dr Hassan bin Lahdan al Hassan al Mohannadi stated that at the outset of the meeting, the Cabinet praised the results of the visit of the Emir His Highness Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad al Thani to the Russian Federation on March 25 and 26, stressing that his talks with President Vladimir Putin of Russia reflected the strength of bilateral relations between the two friendly countries and peoples and opened new horizons for the development and expansion of cooperation in various fields.
The Cabinet then reviewed topics on its meeting's agenda.
The Cabinet approved a draft law on the road transport of hazardous materials and decided to submit it to the Advisory Council. Under the provisions of the draft law, road transport of hazardous substances will not be permissible until obtaining a license from the competent department and after coordination with other government bodies, in accordance with the conditions, controls and procedures specified by the executive regulations.
Moreover, the Cabinet approved a draft law amending some provisions of Law No. (1) of 2016 on the organisation of sports clubs. This draft law came in line with ongoing developments and updates in international regulations and standards related to the independence of sport.
The amendment aims at strengthening the independence of general assemblies of sports clubs to assume the tasks that are entrusted to them, to find a clear and effective legal mechanism to attract Qatari cadres qualified to work in sports clubs, to involve athletes from various universities, institutes and schools in international competitions and to enhance the participation of the private sector to invest in the sports sector and provide sports activities and services in the country.
The Cabinet also approved a draft resolution of the Minister of Endowments (Awqaf) and Islamic Affairs to establish sections in the administrative units that comprise the General Authority for Minors' Affairs and assign their competences, and a draft resolution of Minister of Municipality and Environment to adopt Qatari technical regulations.
In addition, the Cabinet approved a draft agreement for cooperation in the cultural field between the Government of the State of Qatar and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay, and a draft memorandum of understanding for cooperation in the areas of youth and sports between the Government of the State of Qatar and the Government of the Republic of Paraguay.
The Cabinet then reviewed a letter of the Permanent Water Resources Committee on the semi-annual report on the Committee's work for the period from July 1 to December 31, 2017, and a memorandum of HE Minister of Administrative Development, Labour and Social Affairs on the briefing of the recommendation (205) of the International Labour Organization (ILO) regarding employment and decent work for peace and resilience.