Tribune News Network
Doha
QATAR Foundation (QF) has placed the entire community at the top of its agenda, with a full programme of events designed to inspire the public to become active, engaged citizens.
This year saw the continuation of the popular Torba Farmers Market at the Ceremonial Court in Education City. With the summer fast approaching, the market will now open on Friday and Saturday evenings, from 5pm to 10pm, until the end of April.
Each weekend, the market brings together 30 vendors as well as thousands of community members from around the country, supporting local food producers and agriculture. The Qatari-founded initiative offers a wide range of produce, including freshly-baked goods, fruit and vegetables, homemade preserves, syrups, butters, and handicrafts and gardening supplies.
Machaille al Naimi, president of Community Development, QF, said:"After very positive feedback and due to popular demand and interest from the community, Torba Farmers Market will now take place in the evenings every Friday and Saturday for another month, so we hope to see everyone there. At QF, our community development programmes are central to everything we do, and Torba Farmers Market is just one example of how we strive to meet the needs of our society, strengthen Qatari culture and foster social engagement."
Additionally, and in line with QF's dedication to supporting local food producers, every Friday, Chef's Garden, located in Al Shaqab, is hosting a farmer's brunch from 12.30pm to 3.30pm, which includes a range of fun activities for children and the whole family.
QF also recently announced the launch of its 'EC Running Series'. The first event took place on Friday, March 23, and brought together runners from all over the country to Education City. The run will be repeated in April, featuring distances of 3km, 5km, 10km and 21km. The races aim to give men and women the opportunity to explore Education City, including QF's Oxygen Park.
EC Running Series participant Abdalla al Menhali said:"I signed up for this event because I like running. The whole experience was superb and a lot of fun the organisation was great and Education City is the best place to do such events because of the route and facilities. Runs like these are very important because they encourage people to exercise."
QF also invites the public to enjoy the facilities at Oxygen Park, a 130,000-square-metre open space that incorporates sports and recreation areas, and includes football fields, running tracks, air-conditioned covered walkways and beach volleyball courts."As a leading agent of change in Qatar, we actively support a broad range of community-orientated sports initiatives that cater for all ages and abilities. We strive to offer the local population access to some of the country's best sporting and recreational facilities. A tangible demonstration of this commitment is the launch of our very own running series, which is open to the whole community," added Naimi.
Furthermore, as part of QF's community-inspired activities towards supporting lifelong learning, creativity and cultural development among all residents, Qatar National Library (QNL) hosts a diverse range of community-orientated activities year-round, including concerts, lectures and reading events, designed to educate and entertain through as many channels as possible.
Upcoming events at QNL include a public lecture titled 'Ecological Crisis and Future of Food Security' on March 29. QNL will also welcome aspiring musicians to take part in its 'Introduction to the Music Studio' event on March 31, offering members of the community a chance to play musical instruments and make use of recording equipment and software at the library's 'Innovation Station'.
Additionally, QF's Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra provides members of the public with the opportunity to experience and learn about a variety of musical genres from the Arab world and beyond. Upcoming concerts include a musical Tour of Europe set to take place at Katara Opera House on March 30.