QNA
Doha
THE Ministry of Culture and Sport, represented by the theatre affairs centre, marked on Tuesday the World Theatre Day, which is celebrated on March 27, in the presence of Minister of Culture and Sport HE Salah bin Ghanim al Ali, a number of heads of accredited diplomatic missions and several Qatari, Arab and international theatre practitioners.
Speaking on the occasion, the minister said that Qatari theatre practitioners have proved that they are capable of presenting popular works that stem from suffering, concerns, hope and ambitions of the recipient.
The minister added that theatre practitioners promised the future in their field will be better in the framework of making Qatar a role model and a beacon not only for the region but for the world and in every field that serves humanity, relying in this regard on its loyal people and residents.
He said that the celebration of the World Theatre Day comes in a context in which Qatari artists expressed their commitment to the country's issues and their understanding of the message of theatre and its return to communication with the community.
The minister pointed out that the drama movement in this season reflected the rebirth of the Qatari theatre, which stems from the original values of culture and gains future vision day after day thanks to its belief that changing society is part of its message, and that this change requires a deep awareness of superior human values that convey optimism and positive energies.
Qatar National Theatre, which hosted the celebration, saw a performance of the national anthem in the main hall by the symphony orchestra of the Qatari armed forces. The band also played a number of musical pieces with the participation of artists and the public before the concert began on stage.
During the celebration, Al Ali honoured the winners in the theatre season, in which four plays competed. He also presented the theatre personality of the year award to Hassan Mohamed al Muraikhi who had served at Qatar National Theatre since 1982.
A documentary film was screened to highlight the milestones of the theatre season and performances for adults and children, as well as the activities and programmes presented by the theatre affairs centre.
The International Theatre Institute celebrates the World Theatre Day on March 27 and, for this year's edition to celebrate its 70th anniversary, it named five personalities to author its annual message, each hailing from one of the five different UNESCO regions (Africa, America, Arab region, Asia-Pacific and Europe).
The five authors are Ram Gopal Bajaj of India, Maya Zbib of Lebanon, Simon McBurney of the UK, Sabina Berman of Mexico and Were Were Liking of Ivory Coast.
Qatar's theatre movement has been celebrating the World Theatre Day since the eighties to participate in the event with world theatre.