Tribune News Network
Doha
A high-profile delegation from the UK's Department for International Development (DFID) visited Qatar Charity (QC) headquarters to review its humanitarian and development efforts across the globe and discuss joint cooperation and coordination.
The delegation included British Minister of State for International Development and for the Middle East and North Africa at Britain's Foreign and Commonwealth Office Rt Hon Alistair Burt, UK Ambassador to Qatar HE Ajay Sharma, DFID's regional representative and many other prominent figures.
The visiting delegation was received by Mohamed al Ghamdi, executive director of the QC's International Cooperation, Yousef al Hammadi, director of the Institutional Development Department, and a number of the QC's officials.
The minister praised the QC's role in the international humanitarian arena.
He said,"I am impressed by the Qatar Charity's generous contributions to humanitarian and development efforts around the world. It is a wonderful effort by Qatari humanitarian institutions, including Qatar Charity."
The minister invited the QC's officials to visit the DFID in the United Kingdom to discuss cooperation, coordination and partnership.
Ghamdi stressed the QC's keenness to cooperate and coordinate with international development agencies and organisations working in the humanitarian field, aiming to alleviate the suffering of those affected by the humanitarian crises around the world.
During the visit, a brief presentation was made about Qatar Charity, its efforts and standing among international humanitarian organisations.
The minister also listened to the QC's financial tracking system as part of its approach to integrated management, which enables it to document all its processes, procedures, systems and mechanisms and supports the institutional regulatory role, by introducing a new work methodology, working according to the latest adopted international standards and concentrating on customer satisfaction.
There was also a review of QC's live financial tracking system, which calculates all incomes of the charity, according to the QC's areas of work. The analysis of the revenues provides indicators that help the executive management make an appropriate decision.
Besides, live follow-up and monitoring system of the QC's field offices, located in 27 countries around the globe, was also reviewed, which enables the charity to track the projects, amounts, expenses and balances and provides statistics on the number of completed projects, projects under implementation and the number of current sponsored, updated automatically around the clock.
At the end of the visit, a shield was presented to the minister.