Tribune News Network
Doha
The Cultural Village Foundation (Katara) has announced that the 7th edition of the annual festival 'Senyar' will be held from April 4 to April 20, 2018.
Speaking at a press conference at Katara on Wednesday, Katara General Manager Dr Khalid bin Ibrahim al Sulaiti said there are 67 teams participating in the festival with their own wooden boats in the (Haddag) fishing championship and another 15 teams in the pearl-diving championship.
"The 1st of April will be dedicated to receiving and preparing the participating traditional wooden boats at the Katara beach area," Dr Sulaiti said.
The festival has witnessed a significant development this year in terms of extension of the duration instead of five days in the previous ones and the number of participating teams.
The championship aims to revive ancestral heritage while highlighting the traditions, customs and values associated with Qatari marine life. The experiences of arduous diving voyages of the past centuries included the admirable exertion of patience and persistence.
"The aim is to preserve culture and heritage from vanishing in this renaissance era and Katara is taking responsibility to revive the culture of our ancestors," Dr Sulaiti added.
Jihad al Jaida, from Senyar organising committee, said participants would be accompanied by their families and children to provide a good chance for the young ones to get direct exposure to Qatar's rich culture and heritage.
"Katara's beach will be busy during the whole month and the participants will be residing there an even cooking their food as well near their boats as it was in the past. Qatar Red Crescent Society will have a permanent presence throughout the period of the championship to ensure the participants' safety," Jaida said.
Jaidah added that the committee has expanded the fishing area and will provide operation offices to monitor the championships.
The pearl-diving championship will start on April 4, Ghaffal championship will begin on April 7 while Haddag championship will start on April 14.