Tribune News Network
DOHA
The Qatar Volleyball Association took strong action in the wake of the ugly physical fight that broke out after the League match between leaders Al Rayyan Club and Qatar Sports Club on Monday.
The QVA competition committee, headed by QVA Secretary-General Mohamed Ali al Mohannadi, suspended eight players of both the teams, besides imposing financial fines.
The decisions were based on the report of the match officials and the testimony of two association board members.
The committee also referred to the match video and ruled that the decisions were final and made in line with regulations. The committee also expressed regret over the incident, which happened in the league for the first time in over 30 years.
Al Rayyan Club had won the match 3-2 to extend their winning streak to 15 matches but during the game and after, the players of both the teams were seen fighting.
Al Rayyan Club's captain Mubarak Dahi Waleed and William Bermudez got the heaviest punishment. Both were suspended for eight matches and slapped a fine of QR 5,000 each. Marcus got a three-match ban, alongwith a fine of QR3,000.
Al Rayyan's one more player was suspended for one match and imposed a fine of QR1,000 Bairama Fawe.
For Qatar Sports Club, Osman and Yousef were suspended for one match each and handed a fine of QR2,000 apiece. Sofian was also got a ban for one match, besides a fine of QR1,000.
Sultan of QSC and Nikic (libero) of Al Rayyan were given warning by the disciplinary committee.
The suspensions have jeopardised the QVA League victory for Al Rayyan Club, who have been undefeated in 15 matches so far. At the moment, they are three points ahead of second-placed Police (40 points). Both will play the last match of the League on April 7 as well.
With some of the core players being suspended, Al Rayyan Club, who have three more matches still to play, face a big danger of losing the League crown. If Police can beat them 3-0 or 3-1, they can tie Al Rayyan on points and enforce a decider. And then, anything is possible.