Hedge Your Bet With These Real Estate Dividend Payers Becky Mayes March 20, 2018 
Performance in the real estate sector generally tracks the economic cycle. During periods of high growth and inflation, real estate investments usually post strong returns. However, during an economic bust, these investments tend to underperform. These factors drive the profitability and cash flows of real estate companies, which in turn steer the dividend payout and yield for investors. During economic growth, these companies provide an opportune time to increase your portfolio income through dividends. If you’re a long term investor, these high-dividend real estate stocks can boost your monthly portfolio income. Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust ( TSX:APR.UN ) 
APR.UN has a juicy dividend yield of 8.09% and their current payout ratio is 51.54% , with the expected payout in three years being 88.94%. APR.UN is among the markets top 25% of dividend payers, which is certainly enticing for interested investors. Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust’s earnings per share growth of 46.98% over the past 12 months outpaced the ca reits industry’s average growth rate of 20.17%. More on Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust here . TSX:APR.UN Historical Dividend Yield Mar 19th 18 Northview Apartment Real Estate Investment Trust ( TSX:NVU.UN ) 
NVU.UN has a great dividend yield of 6.36% and pays 44.37% of it’s earnings as dividends , with the expected payout in three years being 52.41%. NVU.UN’s last dividend payment was CA$1.63, up from it’s payment 10 years ago of CA$1.48. To the enjoyment of shareholders, the company hasn’t missed a payment during this period. The company outperformed the ca reits industry’s earnings growth of 20.17%, reporting an EPS growth of 174.11% over the past 12 months. Dig deeper into Northview Apartment Real Estate Investment Trust here . TSX:NVU.UN Historical Dividend Yield Mar 19th 18 Artis Real Estate Investment Trust ( TSX:AX.UN ) 
AX.UN has a juicy dividend yield of 7.90% and the company has a payout ratio of 75.28% . AX.UN’s DPS have risen to CA$1.08 from CA$1.05 over a 10 year period. They have been consistent too, not missing a payment during this 10 year period. The company recorded earnings growth of 121.55% in the past year, comparing favorably with the ca reits industry average of 20.17%. Interested in Artis Real Estate Investment Trust? Find out more here . TSX:AX.UN Historical Dividend Yield Mar 19th 18 
For more solid dividend paying companies to add to your portfolio, explore this interactive list of top dividend payers . Share this article: 
Expertise: Fixed income, financial statement analysis, financial law 
Investment style: Long-term horizon, momentum, high conviction, long only 
Becky is a self-taught investor that has been investing in equities since she was a senior in college and continues to invest. She is extremely devoted to demystifying investing terminology for new investors. 
Reach Becky at . 