Is There Now An Opportunity In Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust (TSE:BEI.UN)? Dale Lombardi March 31, 2018 
Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust ( TSX:BEI.UN ), a reits company based in Canada, received a lot of attention from a substantial price movement on the TSX in the over the last few months, increasing to CA$46.06 at one point, and dropping to the lows of CA$40.76. This high level of volatility gives investors the opportunity to enter into the stock, and potentially buy at an artificially low price. A question to answer is whether Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust’s current trading price of CA$44.27 reflective of the actual value of the small-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change. Check out our latest analysis for Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust What’s the opportunity in Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust? The stock is currently trading at CA$44.27 on the share market, which means it is overvalued by 53% compared to my intrinsic value of CA$28.88 . Not the best news for investors looking to buy! Another thing to keep in mind is that Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust’s share price is quite stable relative to the rest of the market, as indicated by its low beta. This means that if you believe the current share price should move towards its intrinsic value over time, a low beta could suggest it is not likely to reach that level anytime soon, and once it’s there, it may be hard to fall back down into an attractive buying range again. What does the future of Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust look like? TSX:BEI.UN Future Profit Mar 30th 18 Future outlook is an important aspect when you’re looking at buying a stock, especially if you are an investor looking for growth in your portfolio. Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust’s revenue growth are expected to be in the teens in the upcoming years, indicating a solid future ahead. Unless expenses grow at the same level, or higher, this top-line growth should lead to robust cash flows, feeding into a higher share value. What this means for you: 
Are you a shareholder? It seems like the market has well and truly priced in BEI.UN’s positive outlook, with shares trading above its fair value. However, this brings up another question – is now the right time to sell? If you believe BEI.UN should trade below its current price, selling high and buying it back up again when its price falls towards its real value can be profitable. But before you make this decision, take a look at whether its fundamentals have changed. 
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping an eye on BEI.UN for a while, now may not be the best time to enter into the stock. The price has surpassed its true value, which means there’s no upside from mispricing. However, the optimistic prospect is encouraging for BEI.UN, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors in order to take advantage of the next price drop. 
Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust. You can find everything you need to know about Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust in the latest infographic research report . If you are no longer interested in Boardwalk Real Estate Investment Trust, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential . These great dividend stocks are beating your savings account Not only have these stocks been reliable dividend payers for the last 10 years but with the yield over 3% they are also easily beating your savings account (let alone the possible capital gains). Click here to see them for FREE on Simply Wall St . Share this article: 
Expertise: Developed markets, quantitative finance 
Investment style: Long-term horizon, momentum, buy and hold, dividend 
Dale has several years of experience in investments, having worked in various roles at quantitative hedge funds in Germany. When he isn't learning about foreign markets or studying new companies, Dale enjoys rowing and watching Seinfeld. 
Reach Dale at . 