What Kind Of Risk Should You Expect For Shoshoni Gold Ltd (CVE:SHJ)? David Owens April 1, 2018 
For Shoshoni Gold Ltd’s ( TSXV:SHJ ) shareholders, and also potential investors in the stock, understanding how the stock’s risk and return characteristics can impact your portfolio is important. Broadly speaking, there are two types of risk you should consider when investing in stocks such as SHJ. The first risk to consider is company-specific, which can be diversified away when you invest in other companies in the same industry as SHJ, because it is rare that an entire industry collapses at once. The other type of risk, which cannot be diversified away, is market risk. Every stock in the market is exposed to this risk, which arises from macroeconomic factors such as economic growth and geo-political tussles just to name a few. 
Not every stock is exposed to the same level of market risk. A widely-used metric to measure a stock’s market risk is beta, and the broad market index represents a beta value of one. A stock with a beta greater than one is expected to exhibit higher volatility resulting from market-wide shocks compared to one with a beta below one. See our latest analysis for Shoshoni Gold What is SHJ’s market risk? 
Shoshoni Gold has a beta of 3.01, which means that the percentage change in its stock value will be higher than the entire market in times of booms and busts. A high level of beta means investors face higher risk associated with potential gains and losses driven by market movements. Based on this beta value, SHJ may be a stock for investors with a portfolio mainly made up of low-beta stocks. This is because during times of bullish sentiment, you can reap more of the upside with high-beta stocks compared to muted movements of low-beta holdings. TSXV:SHJ Income Statement Mar 31st 18 Does SHJ’s size and industry impact the expected beta? 
SHJ, with its market capitalisation of CA$495.34K, is a small-cap stock, which generally have higher beta than similar companies of larger size. Furthermore, the company operates in the metals and mining industry, which has been found to have high sensitivity to market-wide shocks. So, investors should expect a larger beta for smaller companies operating in a cyclical industry in contrast with lower beta for larger firms in a more defensive industry. This is consistent with SHJ’s individual beta value we discussed above. Next, we will examine the fundamental factors which can cause cyclicality in the stock. Can SHJ’s asset-composition point to a higher beta? 
An asset-heavy company tends to have a higher beta because the risk associated with running fixed assets during a downturn is highly expensive. I examine SHJ’s ratio of fixed assets to total assets to see whether the company is highly exposed to the risk of this type of constraint. Given that fixed assets make up an insignificant portion of total assets, SHJ doesn’t rely heavily upon these expensive, inflexible assets to run its business during downturns. As a result, the company may be less volatile relative to broad market movements, compared to a company of similar size but higher proportion of fixed assets. However, this is the opposite to what SHJ’s actual beta value suggests, which is higher stock volatility relative to the market. What this means for you: 
You may reap the gains of SHJ’s returns during times of economic growth by holding the stock. Its low fixed cost also implies that it has the flexibility to adjust its cost to preserve margins during times of a downturn. I recommend analysing the stock in terms of your current portfolio composition before deciding to invest more into SHJ. What I have not mentioned in my article here are important company-specific fundamentals such as Shoshoni Gold’s financial health and performance track record. I highly recommend you to complete your research by taking a look at the following: Financial Health : Is SHJ’s operations financially sustainable? Balance sheets can be hard to analyze, which is why we’ve done it for you. Check out our financial health checks here . Past Track Record : Has SHJ been consistently performing well irrespective of the ups and downs in the market? Go into more detail in the past performance analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of SHJ’s historicals for more clarity. Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . Discounted cash flow calculation for every stock Simply Wall St does a detailed discounted cash flow calculation every 6 hours for every stock on the market, so if you want to find the intrinsic value of any company just search here . It’s FREE. Share this article: David Owens David has been investing in the market for the 5 years. Although he doesn’t consider himself a seasoned veteran, he believes 5 years is a lot of time to understand the market and the psychology of investors. He learnt investing strategies and principles from friends working at fund managers as well as timeless books from share market legends like Warren Buffet and Peter Lynch. Reach David by sending an email at . 