What Are Analysts Saying About RIB Software SE’s (FRA:RIB) Profit Margin? Joel Foster April 2, 2018 
RIB Software’s gloomy vision for earnings in the future drives analysts to forecast a material decline of -29.59% in the coming 12 months, but it’s critical to take a step back and think through this projection. Investors should consider the forces that are sparking this decrease, because the sustainability of returns to shareholders can be impacted on in different ways. To get some insight, I will try to evaluate RIB Software’s margin behaviour so investors can evaluate the revenue and cost drivers behind future earnings projections and understand how they may impact on returns compared to the industry. Check out our latest analysis for RIB Software A closer look at RIB’s profit margin 
In general, the value that accrues to equity holders is partly reliant on the ability of a company to convert sales revenue in to earnings. Knowing the portion of top line revenue that is turned into net income helps to assess this ability whilst spotting profit drivers, and can be found by calculating RIB’s profit margin. 
Margin Calculation for RIB 
Profit Margin = Net Income ÷ Revenue 
∴ Profit Margin = 24.87 Million ÷ 108.77 Million = 22.87% 
The past five years have seen RIB Software’s margin remain stable, with a 19.80% average growth in net income, keeping pace with a 19.84% average growth in revenue which suggests that the company has maintained the percentage of revenue that is converted in to net income, meaning their top line growth has also coincided with an increase in earnings. The current 22.87% margin seems to continue this movement, indicating that earnings growth has likely been driven through revenue growth alongside the benefits of improved cost management. Using RIB Software’s margin expectations as a way to understand projections for the future 
Forward looking projections suggest margins will shift towards expansion, with 17.03% in expected annual revenue growth and annual net income growth forecasted at 30.55%. This suggests future earnings growth is driven further by enhanced cost efficiency alongside revenue increases, which is enlarging the incremental amount of net income that is retained from the forecasted revenue growth. However, investors should realise margin expansion can mean different things for different companies, thus more detailed research is essential. DB:RIB Future Profit Apr 1st 18 Generally, it is useful to judge profit margin and its implication on return in comparison to other companies who share similar traits. In RIB Software’s case, future profit margin is expected to expand simultaneously with margins in the Software industry, and at the same time, RIB’s projected ROE of 5.86% is less than the 12.18% expected ROE for the rest of industry. This highlights that analysts believe the underlying earnings characteristics mentioned above will provide a lower return for shareholders in relation to the industry. But before moving forward, it must be remembered that bottom line earnings and profit margins are susceptible to being manipulated and don’t always give the full picture. Thus, it is essential to run your own analysis on RIB Software’s future earnings whilst maintaining a watchful eye over the sustainability of their cost management methods and the runway for top line growth. Next Steps: 
For RIB, I’ve compiled three key factors you should further research: Financial Health : Does it have a healthy balance sheet? Take a look at our free balance sheet analysis with six simple checks on key factors like leverage and risk. Valuation : What is RIB worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether RIB is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Growth Alternatives : Are there other high-growth stocks you could be holding instead of RIB? Explore our interactive list of stocks with large growth potential to get an idea of what else is out there you may be missing! Share this article: Joel Foster Joel is a relatively new investor, only investing for the last 5 years. He believes though, that it’s not the amount of time in the market that determines a good investor, but rather how dedicated they are to actively improving their knowledge. He has immersed himself in the world of investing, and prides himself on avoiding hype from latest trends and news. Reach Joel by sending an email at . 