No Stopping The Paycom Software Inc (NYSE:PAYC) Growth Train Brad Riley April 2, 2018 
Paycom Software Inc ( NYSE:PAYC )’s outlook is one of buoyant sentiment as it continues to post exciting top-line revenue growth. I’ve written a brief commentary on the key things you’d need to believe in order to be long PAYC. 
Firstly, a quick intro on the company – Paycom Software, Inc. provides cloud-based human capital management (HCM) software service for small to mid-sized companies in the United States. Started in 1998, it operates in United States and is recently valued at US$6.34B. NYSE:PAYC Future Profit Apr 1st 18 
There’s no doubt PAYC is delivery on its promises, with a soaring annual revenue growth of 31.57% , and a bottom line growth of 53.16%. Since 2013, sales has risen 31.14%, corresponding with larger capital expenditure, which most recently reached US$59.39M. With continual reinvestment into business operations, a return on investment of 37.70% is forecasted for the upcoming three years, according to the consensus of broker analysts covering the stock . Net income is expected to grow to US$107.61M over the next year, and over the next five years, earnings are predicted to grow at an annual rate of 29.05% on average, compared to the industry average growth of 27.30%. These figures illustrate PAYC’s strong track record of producing profit to its investors, with an efficient approach to reinvesting into the business, and a buoyant future compared to peers in the sector. NYSE:PAYC Historical Debt Apr 1st 18 
PAYC’s financial status is a key element to determine whether or not it is a risky investment – a key aspect most investors overlook when they focus too much on growth. Paycom Software’s balance sheet is robust , with high levels of cash generated from its core operating activities (3.64x debt) able to service its borrowings. Furthermore, PAYC’s debt level is at an appropriate 26.48% of equity and has been declining over the past five years from 766.99%. PAYC also generates a sufficient level of earnings which amply covers its annual interest payment 50.4x. The company shows the ability to manage its capital requirements well, increasing my conviction of the sustainability of the business going forward. PAYC has high near term liquidity, with short term assets (cash and other liquid assets) amply covering upcoming one-year liabilities, as well as long-term commitments. A reason I like PAYC as a business is its low level of fixed assets on its balance sheet (10.97% of total assets) . When I think about the worst-case scenario in order to assess the downside, such as a downturn or bankruptcy, physical assets and inventory will be hard to liquidate and redistribute back to investors. PAYC has virtually no fixed assets, which minimizes its downside risk. 
The current share price for PAYC is US$107.39. At 59.06 million shares, that’s a US$6.34B market cap – which is too high, even for a company that has a 5-year cumulative average growth rate (CAGR) of 34.40% (source: analyst consensus). With an upcoming 2018 free cash flow figure of US$128.47M, the target price for PAYC is US$50.27 . This indicates that the stock is currently priced at a large premium. Moreover, comparing PAYC’s current share price to its peers based on its industry and earnings level, it’s overvalued by 176.83%, with a PE ratio of 93.21x vs. the industry average of 33.67x. 
PAYC’s investment thesis is a positive one. The stock is appealing because of its strong fundamentals – financial health, future outlook and track record. However, at its current share price, right now may not be the best time to invest. For all the charts illustrating this analysis, take a look at the Simply Wall St platform , which is where I’ve taken my data from. Investors! Do you know the famous “Icahn’s lift”? Noted activist shareholder, Carl Ichan has become famous (and rich) by taking positions in badly run public corporations and forcing them to make radical changes to uncover shareholders value. "Icahn lift" is a bump in a company's stock price that often occurs after he has taken a position in it. What were his last buys? Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Carl Icahn’s investment portfolio . Share this article: Brad Riley Brad has a background in financial management, but was taught investment principles by his father, that of which guides his investment philosophy today. He is a strong advocate of dividend investing, particularly for passive investors. He enjoys helping beginner investors adopt an investment mindset based on realistic expectations and foundational principles, and is a big believer that “if you’re beating the bank, you’re a successful investor”. Reach Brad by sending an email at . 