Why You Should Look Beyond Newmark Group Inc’s (NASDAQ:NMRK) Growth Devin Koller March 31, 2018 
There’s no stopping the Newmark Group Inc ( NASDAQ:NMRK ) growth train, with analysts forecasting high top-line growth in the near future. Currently trading at US$15.19, the share price has been relatively stable over the past couple of months. I’ve been impressed with NMRK for a while, with strong operations led by Mr. Barry Gosin . Today I will conduct a high level fundamental analysis on the company by looking at its past financials and growth prospects moving forward. 
Newmark Group, Inc. provides commercial real estate services in the United States and internationally. Started in 1929, it operates in United States and is recently valued at US$2.35B. NasdaqGS:NMRK Future Profit Mar 30th 18 
NMRK is exceeding expectations, with top-line rocketing up by 18.26% from last financial year . Since 2013, revenue has risen 12.51%, boosted by prior years of higher capital expenditure, which most recently reached US$19.07M. NMRK has been reinvesting more into the business, leading to expected return on investment of 90.15% in the next financial year, according to the consensus of broker analysts covering the stock . Net income is expected to increase to US$194.31M over the next year, and over the next five years, earnings are predicted to rise at an annual rate of 13.46% on average, compared to the industry average growth of -0.15%. These figures illustrate NMRK’s strong track record of producing profit to its investors, with an efficient approach to reinvesting into the business, and a buoyant future compared to peers in the sector. NasdaqGS:NMRK Historical Debt Mar 30th 18 
Limiting your downside risk is an important part of investing, and financial health is a key determinant on whether NMRK is a risky investment or not. A big red-siren warning for NMRK is its high level of debt exceeding its total level of equity . However, cash generated from its core operating activities makes up a decent portion of debt (0.57x), and it generates enough interest income to cover its interest payments. There’s room for improvement on the debt level front, but its overall cash coverage somewhat increases my conviction of the sustainability of the business going forward. Although NMRK has high near term liquidity, with short term assets (cash and other liquid assets) covering upcoming one-year liabilities, it is not enough to cover longer term liabilities. This is not a big concern, though something we should be aware of. One reason I do like NMRK as a business is its low level of fixed assets on its balance sheet (2.85% of total assets). When I think about the worst-case scenario in order to assess the downside, such as a downturn or bankruptcy, physical assets and inventory will be hard to liquidate and redistribute back to investors. NMRK has virtually no fixed assets, which minimizes its downside risk. 
The current share price for NMRK is US$15.19. With 154.76 million shares, that’s a US$2.35B market cap – which is too low for a company that has has a 5-year free cash flow cumulative average growth rate (CAGR) of 12.51% (source: analyst consensus). Given the consensus 2018 FCF level of US$379.00M, the target price for NMRK is US$38.52 . This means the stock is currently trading at a massive discount. But, comparing NMRK’s current share price to its peers based on its industry and earnings level, it’s overvalued by 58.26%, with a PE ratio of 14.03x vs. the industry average of 8.86x. 
In order to invest in NMRK, you have to believe in its growth story, and the possibility that it has not yet been factored into its share price. However, my main reservation with the company is its financial health. For all the charts illustrating this analysis, take a look at the Simply Wall St platform , which is where I’ve taken my data from. TOP undervalued stocks for 2017 Looking for undervalued stocks? The trick is not to follow the herd. These overlooked companies are now trading for less than their intrinsic value. Click here to see them for FREE on the Simply Wall St platform . Share this article: Devin Koller Devin took a contrarian approach and began investing shortly after the GFC in 2008 in pursuit of capital gains from the then undervalued market. He has carried this value investment philosophy into his portfolio strategy today, looking for buying opportunities where strong companies are currently being overlooked. Reach Devin by sending email at . 