At €21.4, Is It Time To Buy Amsterdam Commodities NV. (AMS:ACOMO)? Jacob Boyd April 4, 2018 
Amsterdam Commodities NV. ( ENXTAM:ACOMO ), a consumer retailing company based in Netherlands, received a lot of attention from a substantial price movement on the ENXTAM in the over the last few months, increasing to €25.3 at one point, and dropping to the lows of €21.3. This high level of volatility gives investors the opportunity to enter into the stock, and potentially buy at an artificially low price. A question to answer is whether Amsterdam Commodities’s current trading price of €21.4 reflective of the actual value of the small-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at Amsterdam Commodities’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change. View our latest analysis for Amsterdam Commodities What’s the opportunity in Amsterdam Commodities? The stock seems fairly valued at the moment according to my valuation model. It’s trading around 7% above my intrinsic value, which means if you buy Amsterdam Commodities today, you’d be paying a relatively reasonable price for it. And if you believe the company’s true value is €20.04 , then there isn’t really any room for the share price grow beyond what it’s currently trading. In addition to this, it seems like Amsterdam Commodities’s share price is quite stable, which could mean there may be less chances to buy low in the future now that it’s fairly valued. This is because the stock is less volatile than the wider market given its low beta. Can we expect growth from Amsterdam Commodities? ENXTAM:ACOMO Future Profit Apr 4th 18 Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. With profit expected to grow by a double-digit 18.16% over the next couple of years, the outlook is positive for Amsterdam Commodities. It looks like higher cash flows is on the cards for the stock, which should feed into a higher share valuation. What this means for you: 
Are you a shareholder? ACOMO’s optimistic future growth appears to have been factored into the current share price, with shares trading around its fair value. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the financial strength of the company. Have these factors changed since the last time you looked at the stock? Will you have enough conviction to buy should the price fluctuates below the true value? 
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping tabs on ACOMO, now may not be the most optimal time to buy, given it is trading around its fair value. However, the positive outlook is encouraging for the company, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors such as the strength of its balance sheet, in order to take advantage of the next price drop. 
Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on Amsterdam Commodities. You can find everything you need to know about Amsterdam Commodities in the latest infographic research report . If you are no longer interested in Amsterdam Commodities, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential . How is Warren Buffet's advice working out for Bill Gates? Bill Gates dropped out of college to found Microsoft. He's a prodigy who has become one of the richest men in the world. But when it comes to the stock market, he follows the advice of billionaire investor Warren Buffett. So what stocks is he holding today? Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's portfolio . Share this article: Jacob Boyd Fresh out of university, Jacob started investing right at the beginning of his four year information technology and finance degree. For his age, he probably knows more than most of the DIY investors out there. He says analysing companies is a challenging, time consuming but incredibly rewarding and autonomous feeling. He also believes that teaching others is not just the best way to add value to others, but to improve one’s own learning, which is why he loves to write for the Simply Wall St news site. Reach Jacob by sending an email at . 