Home Invest Belgium SA. (EBR:HOMI): Is Now The Time To Bet On Real Estate? Armando Maloney April 5, 2018 
Home Invest Belgium SA. ( ENXTBR:HOMI ), a €282.12M small-cap, operates in the real estate industry which is the most prevalent industry in the global economy, and as an asset class, it has continued to play a crucial role in the portfolios of various investors. A real estate investment trust (REIT) is a collective vehicle for investing in real estate that originated in the US and has since been taken on board globally. Real estate analysts are forecasting for the entire industry, negative growth in the upcoming year . Is the real estate industry an attractive sector-play right now? In this article, I’ll take you through the real estate sector growth expectations, as well as evaluate whether Home Invest Belgium is lagging or leading its competitors in the industry. See our latest analysis for Home Invest Belgium What’s the catalyst for Home Invest Belgium’s sector growth? 
ENXTBR:HOMI Past Future Earnings Apr 5th 18 Issues around rate hikes and yield changes have made investors sceptical of REITs. The capacity for these investment vehicles to absorb a rate hike should be considered, hence, factors such as lease durations and pricing power in the market would require a deeper dive. In the past year, the industry delivered growth in the thirties, beating the BE market growth of 7.14%. Home Invest Belgium lags the pack with its negative growth rate of -27.13% over the past year, which indicates the company will be growing at a slower pace than its REIT peers. However, the future seems brighter, as analysts expect an industry-beating growth rate of 91.09% in the upcoming year. This future growth may make Home Invest Belgium a more expensive stock relative to its peers. Is Home Invest Belgium and the sector relatively cheap? 
ENXTBR:HOMI PE PEG Gauge Apr 5th 18 REIT companies are typically trading at a PE of 12.24x, relatively similar to the rest of the BE stock market PE of 14.48x. This illustrates a fairly valued sector relative to the rest of the market, indicating low mispricing opportunities. Furthermore, the industry returned a similar 9.11% on equities compared to the market’s 9.22%. On the stock-level, Home Invest Belgium is trading at a higher PE ratio of 20.6x, making it more expensive than the average REIT stock. In terms of returns, Home Invest Belgium generated 6.10% in the past year, which is 3.02% below the REIT sector. Next Steps: Home Invest Belgium’s industry-beating future is a positive for shareholders, indicating they’ve backed a fast-growing horse. However, this higher growth prospect is also reflected in the company’s price, suggested by its higher PE ratio relative to its peers. If Home Invest Belgium has been on your watchlist for a while, now may not be the best time to enter into the stock since it is trading at a higher valuation compared to other REIT companies. However, before you make a decision on the stock, I suggest you look at Home Invest Belgium’s fundamentals in order to build a holistic investment thesis. Financial Health : Does it have a healthy balance sheet? Take a look at our free balance sheet analysis with six simple checks on key factors like leverage and risk. Historical Track Record : What has HOMI’s performance been like over the past? Go into more detail in the past track record analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of our analysis for more clarity. Other High-Growth Alternatives : Are there other high-growth stocks you could be holding instead of Home Invest Belgium? Explore our interactive list of stocks with large growth potential to get an idea of what else is out there you may be missing! The easiest way to discover new investment ideas Save hours of research when discovering your next investment with Simply Wall St. Looking for companies potentially undervalued based on their future cash flows? Or maybe you’re looking for sustainable dividend payers or high growth potential stocks. Customise your search to easily find new investment opportunities that match your investment goals. And the best thing about it? It’s FREE. Click here to learn more . Share this article: 
Expertise: Central bank policy, market events 
Investment style: High conviction, buy and hold, contrarian 
Armando taught himself to invest in shares after his senior year in high school and hasn't stopped since. Armando graduated from university in Australia with a doctorate degree in Management and is studying to obtain a degree in Macroeconomics. 
Reach Armando at . 