Is Fluxys Belgium SA (EBR:FLUX) Undervalued? Gavin Beck April 4, 2018 
Fluxys Belgium SA ( ENXTBR:FLUX ), an energy company based in Belgium, saw its share price hover around a small range of €25.7 to €27 over the last few weeks. But is this actually reflective of the share value of the mid-cap? Or is it currently undervalued, providing us with the opportunity to buy? Let’s take a look at Fluxys Belgium’s outlook and value based on the most recent financial data to see if there are any catalysts for a price change. Check out our latest analysis for Fluxys Belgium What’s the opportunity in Fluxys Belgium? Fluxys Belgium appears to be overvalued according to my relative valuation model. I’ve used the price-to-equity ratio in this instance because there’s not enough visibility to forecast its cash flows. The stock’s ratio of 36.29x is currently well-above the industry average of 12.8x, meaning that it is trading at a more expensive price relative to its peers. Another thing to keep in mind is that Fluxys Belgium’s share price is quite stable relative to the rest of the market, as indicated by its low beta. This means that if you believe the current share price should move towards its intrinsic value over time, a low beta could suggest it is not likely to reach that level anytime soon, and once it’s there, it may be hard to fall back down into an attractive buying range again. Can we expect growth from Fluxys Belgium? ENXTBR:FLUX Future Profit Apr 4th 18 Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Buying a great company with a robust outlook at a cheap price is always a good investment, so let’s also take a look at the company’s future expectations. However, with an expected decline of -11.59% in revenues over the next couple of years, near-term growth certainly doesn’t appear to be a driver for a buy decision for Fluxys Belgium. This certainty tips the risk-return scale towards higher risk. What this means for you: 
Are you a shareholder? If you believe FLUX is currently trading above its peers, selling high and buying it back up again when its price falls towards its real value can be profitable. Given the risk from a negative growth outlook, this could be the right time to de-risk your portfolio. But before you make this decision, take a look at whether its fundamentals have changed. 
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping tabs on FLUX for some time, now may not be the best time to enter into the stock. Its price has risen beyond its industry peers, on top of a negative future outlook. However, there are also other important factors which we haven’t considered today, such as the financial strength of the company. Should the price fall in the future, will you be well-informed enough to buy? 
Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on Fluxys Belgium. You can find everything you need to know about Fluxys Belgium in the latest infographic research report . If you are no longer interested in Fluxys Belgium, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential . Investors! Do you know the famous “Icahn’s lift”? Noted activist shareholder, Carl Ichan has become famous (and rich) by taking positions in badly run public corporations and forcing them to make radical changes to uncover shareholders value. "Icahn lift" is a bump in a company's stock price that often occurs after he has taken a position in it. What were his last buys? Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Carl Icahn’s investment portfolio . Share this article: Just another guy with a day job and an obsession with the stock market, Gavin strives to provide readers with actionable and constructive information that are capable of generating alpha. Never stop doubting! Reach Gavin by sending email at . 