Are The Boeing Company’s (NYSE:BA) Interest Costs Too High? Ray Foley April 4, 2018 
The size of The Boeing Company ( NYSE:BA ), a US$189.34B large-cap, often attracts investors seeking a reliable investment in the stock market. One reason being its ‘too big to fail’ aura which gives it the appearance of a strong and stable investment. However, the key to extending previous success is in the health of the company’s financials. Today we will look at Boeing’s financial liquidity and debt levels, which are strong indicators for whether the company can weather economic downturns or fund strategic acquisitions for future growth. Note that this commentary is very high-level and solely focused on financial health, so I suggest you dig deeper yourself into BA here . View our latest analysis for Boeing Does BA produce enough cash relative to debt? 
BA’s debt levels surged from US$9.95B to US$11.12B over the last 12 months – this includes both the current and long-term debt. With this increase in debt, BA currently has US$9.99B remaining in cash and short-term investments for investing into the business. Moreover, BA has produced cash from operations of US$13.34B during the same period of time, leading to an operating cash to total debt ratio of 120.03%, indicating that BA’s current level of operating cash is high enough to cover debt. This ratio can also be interpreted as a measure of efficiency as an alternative to return on assets. In BA’s case, it is able to generate 1.2x cash from its debt capital. Can BA pay its short-term liabilities? 
With current liabilities at US$56.27B, it seems that the business has been able to meet these commitments with a current assets level of US$65.16B, leading to a 1.16x current account ratio. Generally, for Aerospace & Defense companies, this is a reasonable ratio since there’s sufficient cash cushion without leaving too much capital idle or in low-earning investments. NYSE:BA Historical Debt Apr 4th 18 Does BA face the risk of succumbing to its debt-load? 
With total debt exceeding equities, Boeing is considered a highly levered company. This is common amongst large-cap companies because debt can often be a less expensive alternative to equity due to tax deductibility of interest payments. Accordingly, large companies often have lower cost of capital due to easily obtained financing, providing an advantage over smaller companies. We can test if BA’s debt levels are sustainable by measuring interest payments against earnings of a company. Ideally, earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) should cover net interest by at least three times. For BA, the ratio of 64.44x suggests that interest is amply covered. High interest coverage is seen as a responsible and safe practice, which highlights why most investors believe large-caps such as BA is a safe investment. Next Steps: 
BA’s high cash coverage means that, although its debt levels are high, the company is able to utilise its borrowings efficiently in order to generate cash flow. This may mean this is an optimal capital structure for the business, given that it is also meeting its short-term commitment. This is only a rough assessment of financial health, and I’m sure BA has company-specific issues impacting its capital structure decisions. You should continue to research Boeing to get a more holistic view of the large-cap by looking at: Future Outlook : What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for BA’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for BA’s outlook. Valuation : What is BA worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether BA is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . How is Warren Buffet's advice working out for Bill Gates? Bill Gates dropped out of college to found Microsoft. He's a prodigy who has become one of the richest men in the world. But when it comes to the stock market, he follows the advice of billionaire investor Warren Buffett. So what stocks is he holding today? Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation's portfolio . Share this article: 
Expertise: Financial law, initial public offerings 
Investment style: Long only, contrarian, high conviction, long-term horizon 
Ray is an equity market guru, being personally invested for over 20 years. When he is not reading about stocks or educating beginner investors on sound investment principles, Ray enjoys skating and windsurfing. 
Reach Ray at . 