How Did Vistin Pharma ASA’s (OB:VISTIN) 4.64% ROE Fare Against The Industry? Laura Kearns March 20, 2018 
Vistin Pharma ASA’s ( OB:VISTIN ) most recent return on equity was a substandard 4.64% relative to its industry performance of 11.38% over the past year. An investor may attribute an inferior ROE to a relatively inefficient performance, and whilst this can often be the case, knowing the nuts and bolts of the ROE calculation may change that perspective and give you a deeper insight into VISTIN’s past performance. Metrics such as financial leverage can impact the level of ROE which in turn can affect the sustainability of VISTIN’s returns. Let me show you what I mean by this. Check out our latest analysis for Vistin Pharma What you must know about ROE 
Firstly, Return on Equity, or ROE, is simply the percentage of last years’ earning against the book value of shareholders’ equity. It essentially shows how much the company can generate in earnings given the amount of equity it has raised. If investors diversify their portfolio by industry, they may want to maximise their return in the Pharmaceuticals sector by investing in the highest returning stock. However, this can be misleading as each firm has different costs of equity and debt levels i.e. the more debt Vistin Pharma has, the higher ROE is pumped up in the short term, at the expense of long term interest payment burden. 
Return on Equity = Net Profit ÷ Shareholders Equity 
ROE is measured against cost of equity in order to determine the efficiency of Vistin Pharma’s equity capital deployed. Its cost of equity is 8.40%. This means Vistin Pharma’s returns actually do not cover its own cost of equity, with a discrepancy of -3.76%. This isn’t sustainable as it implies, very simply, that the company pays more for its capital than what it generates in return. ROE can be split up into three useful ratios: net profit margin, asset turnover, and financial leverage. This is called the Dupont Formula: Dupont Formula 
ROE = profit margin × asset turnover × financial leverage 
ROE = (annual net profit ÷ sales) × (sales ÷ assets) × (assets ÷ shareholders’ equity) 
ROE = annual net profit ÷ shareholders’ equity OB:VISTIN Last Perf Mar 20th 18 
Essentially, profit margin shows how much money the company makes after paying for all its expenses. Asset turnover shows how much revenue Vistin Pharma can generate with its current asset base. Finally, financial leverage will be our main focus today. It shows how much of assets are funded by equity and can show how sustainable the company’s capital structure is. ROE can be inflated by disproportionately high levels of debt. This is also unsustainable due to the high interest cost that the company will also incur. Thus, we should look at Vistin Pharma’s debt-to-equity ratio to examine sustainability of its returns. Currently, Vistin Pharma has no debt which means its returns are driven purely by equity capital. This could explain why Vistin Pharma’s’ ROE is lower than its industry peers, most of which may have some degree of debt in its business. OB:VISTIN Historical Debt Mar 20th 18 Next Steps: 
While ROE is a relatively simple calculation, it can be broken down into different ratios, each telling a different story about the strengths and weaknesses of a company. Vistin Pharma’s ROE is underwhelming relative to the industry average, and its returns were also not strong enough to cover its own cost of equity. Although, its appropriate level of leverage means investors can be more confident in the sustainability of Vistin Pharma’s return with a possible increase should the company decide to increase its debt levels. Although ROE can be a useful metric, it is only a small part of diligent research. 
For Vistin Pharma, I’ve compiled three key factors you should look at: 1. Financial Health : Does it have a healthy balance sheet? Take a look at our free balance sheet analysis with six simple checks on key factors like leverage and risk. 2. Valuation : What is Vistin Pharma worth today? Is the stock undervalued, even when its growth outlook is factored into its intrinsic value? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether Vistin Pharma is currently mispriced by the market. 3. Other High-Growth Alternatives : Are there other high-growth stocks you could be holding instead of Vistin Pharma? Explore our interactive list of stocks with large growth potential to get an idea of what else is out there you may be missing! Warren Buffet’s Portfolio: What is he holding? Get insight into the mind of the most renowned value investor on the planet. Take a look at the portfolio’s top holdings, past performance, how he diversifies his investments, growth estimates and explore investment ideas based on Buffet’s investing methodology. Click here to view a FREE infographic analysis of Warren Buffet’s investment portfolio . Share this article: 
Expertise: Market events, central bank policy, financial statement analysis 
Investment style: Medium-term horizon, long-short, high conviction, momentum 
Laura is a share market hotshot, being personally invested for over 40 years. Laura believes the most valuable nugget of wisdom for new investors is a quote from Phillip Fisher: "The stock market is filled with individuals who know the price of everything, but the value of nothing." 
Reach Laura at . 