Is It Too Late To Buy Mithra Pharmaceuticals SA. (EBR:MITRA)? Alvin Rowe April 8, 2018 
Mithra Pharmaceuticals SA. ( ENXTBR:MITRA ), a pharmaceuticals company based in Belgium, received a lot of attention from a substantial price increase on the ENXTBR over the last few months. Less-covered, small caps sees more of an opportunity for mispricing due to the lack of information available to the public, which can be a good thing. So, could the stock still be trading at a low price relative to its actual value? Let’s examine Mithra Pharmaceuticals’s valuation and outlook in more detail to determine if there’s still a bargain opportunity. Check out our latest analysis for Mithra Pharmaceuticals What’s the opportunity in Mithra Pharmaceuticals? Mithra Pharmaceuticals is currently overpriced based on my relative valuation model. In this instance, I’ve used price-to-book ratio (PB) ratio given that there is not enough information to reliably forecast the stock’s cash flows, and its earnings doesn’t seem to reflect its true value. I find that Mithra Pharmaceuticals’s ratio of 5.08x is above its peer average of 2.81x, which suggests the stock is overvalued compared to the Pharmaceuticals industry. Another thing to keep in mind is that Mithra Pharmaceuticals’s share price is quite stable relative to the rest of the market, as indicated by its low beta. This means that if you believe the current share price should move towards its intrinsic value over time, a low beta could suggest it is not likely to reach that level anytime soon, and once it’s there, it may be hard to fall back down into an attractive buying range again. What does the future of Mithra Pharmaceuticals look like? ENXTBR:MITRA Future Profit Apr 8th 18 Investors looking for growth in their portfolio may want to consider the prospects of a company before buying its shares. Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. With revenues expected to grow by 54.72% over the next couple of years, the future seems bright for Mithra Pharmaceuticals. If the level of expenses is able to be maintained, it looks like higher cash flows is on the cards for the stock, which should feed into a higher share valuation. What this means for you: 
Are you a shareholder? MITRA’s optimistic future growth appears to have been factored into the current share price, with shares trading above its fair value. However, this brings up another question – is now the right time to sell? If you believe MITRA should trade below its current price, selling high and buying it back up again when its price falls towards its real value can be profitable. But before you make this decision, take a look at whether its fundamentals have changed. 
Are you a potential investor? If you’ve been keeping tabs on MITRA for some time, now may not be the best time to enter into the stock. The price has surpassed its industry peers, which means it is likely that there is no more upside from mispricing. However, the optimistic prospect is encouraging for MITRA, which means it’s worth diving deeper into other factors in order to take advantage of the next price drop. 
Price is just the tip of the iceberg. Dig deeper into what truly matters – the fundamentals – before you make a decision on Mithra Pharmaceuticals. You can find everything you need to know about Mithra Pharmaceuticals in the latest infographic research report . If you are no longer interested in Mithra Pharmaceuticals, you can use our free platform to see my list of over 50 other stocks with a high growth potential . The easiest way to discover new investment ideas Save hours of research when discovering your next investment with Simply Wall St. Looking for companies potentially undervalued based on their future cash flows? Or maybe you’re looking for sustainable dividend payers or high growth potential stocks. Customise your search to easily find new investment opportunities that match your investment goals. And the best thing about it? It’s FREE. Click here to learn more . Share this article: Alvin Rowe Alvin is an entrepreneur at heart, running numerous businesses over the last 20 years. He felt that if he didn’t run his own business, he would never see the money that he wanted to retire comfortably. Perfectly in line with this belief was investing in the stock market. Alvin thought that putting most of his savings in dividend paying stocks and reputable companies would help him see better returns than he could from the bank. That was 15 years ago, and Alvin now has built up an impressive portfolio. He enjoys sharing his analysis with other people who too share the goal of a more comfortable retirement through investing. Reach Alvin by sending an email at . 