Does Flex Pharma Inc’s (NASDAQ:FLKS) Latest Financial Perfomance Look Strong? Kyle Sanford April 10, 2018 
Increase in profitability and industry-beating performance can be essential considerations in a stock for some investors. In this article, I will take a look at Flex Pharma Inc’s ( NASDAQ:FLKS ) track record on a high level, to give you some insight into how the company has been performing against its historical trend and its industry peers. Check out our latest analysis for Flex Pharma Commentary On FLKS’s Past Performance 
I like to use the ‘latest twelve-month’ data, which either annualizes the most recent 6-month earnings update, or in some cases, the most recent annual report is already the latest available financial data. This enables me to examine many different companies on a similar basis, using the latest information. For Flex Pharma, its latest earnings (trailing twelve month) is -US$34.43M, which compared to the previous year’s figure, has become less negative. Given that these figures may be relatively short-term thinking, I have calculated an annualized five-year figure for Flex Pharma’s earnings, which stands at -US$30.19M. This shows that, Flex Pharma has historically performed better than recently, despite the fact that it seems like earnings are now heading back towards to right direction again. NasdaqGM:FLKS Income Statement Apr 9th 18 We can further examine Flex Pharma’s loss by looking at what the industry has been experiencing over the past few years. Each year, for the past half a decade Flex Pharma’s top-line has risen by 71.59% on average, signalling that the company is in a high-growth period with expenses shooting ahead of revenues, leading to annual losses. Looking at growth from a sector-level, the US pharmaceuticals industry has been growing its average earnings by double-digit 13.53% over the prior year, and a more subdued 9.89% over the past five. This means that any tailwind the industry is enjoying, Flex Pharma has not been able to gain as much as its industry peers. What does this mean? 
Though Flex Pharma’s past data is helpful, it is only one aspect of my investment thesis. With companies that are currently loss-making, it is always difficult to envisage what will happen in the future and when. The most insightful step is to assess company-specific issues Flex Pharma may be facing and whether management guidance has regularly been met in the past. I recommend you continue to research Flex Pharma to get a more holistic view of the stock by looking at: 1. Financial Health : Is FLKS’s operations financially sustainable? Balance sheets can be hard to analyze, which is why we’ve done it for you. Check out our financial health checks here . 2. Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . NB: Figures in this article are calculated using data from the trailing twelve months from 31 December 2017. This may not be consistent with full year annual report figures. Investors! Do you know the famous “Icahn’s lift”? Noted activist shareholder, Carl Ichan has become famous (and rich) by taking positions in badly run public corporations and forcing them to make radical changes to uncover shareholders value. "Icahn lift" is a bump in a company's stock price that often occurs after he has taken a position in it. What were his last buys? Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Carl Icahn’s investment portfolio . Share this article: 
Expertise: Financial law, investment banking, developed markets 
Investment style: Long only, dividend, momentum 
Kyle taught himself to invest in public companies after his senior year in high school and has been investing ever since. Kyle believes the most useful nugget of wisdom for starting investors is a quote from Seth Klarman: “Investing is the intersection of economics and psychology.” 
Reach Kyle at . 