Add Compare Value Value is all about what a company is worth versus what price it is available for. If you went into a grocery store and all the bananas were on sale at half price, they could be considered undervalued . INTRINSIC VALUE BASED ON FUTURE CASH FLOWS Here we compare the current share price of Raymond James Financial to its discounted cash flow analysis.value. The discounted cash flow value is simply looking at what the company is worth today, based on estimates of how much money it is expected to make in the future. How is this discounted cash flow calculated? The current share price of Raymond James Financial is above its future cash flow value. Often investors are willing to pay a premium for a company that has a high dividend or the potential for future growth. PRICE RELATIVE TO MARKET We can also value a company based on what the stock market is willing to pay for it. This is similar to the price of fruit (e.g. Mangoes or Avocados) increasing when they are out of season, or how much your home is worth. The amount the stock market is willing to pay for Raymond James Financial's earnings , growth and assets is considered below, and whether this is a fair price. Price based on past earnings Are Raymond James Financial's earnings available for a low price, and how does this compare to other companies in the same industry? Raymond James Financial is overvalued based on earnings compared to the US Capital Markets industry average. Raymond James Financial is overvalued based on earnings compared to the US market. Price based on expected Growth Does Raymond James Financial's expected growth come at a high price? Raymond James Financial is good value based on expected growth next year. Price based on value of assets What value do investors place on Raymond James Financial's assets ? Raymond James Financial is overvalued based on assets compared to the US Capital Markets industry average. Value checks We assess Raymond James Financial's value by looking at: Is the discounted cash flow value less than 20%, or 40% of the share price? (2 checks) ( Click here or on bar chart for details of DCF calculation. ) Is the PE ratio less than the market average, and/ or less than the Capital Markets industry average (and greater than 0)? (2 checks) Is the PEG ratio within a reasonable range (0 to 1)? (1 check) Is the PB ratio less than the Capital Markets industry average (and greater than 0)? (1 check) Raymond James Financial has a total score of 1/6, see the detailed checks below. Note: We use GAAP Earnings per Share in all our calculations including PE and PEG Ratio. Note 2: PEG ratio is based on analysts EPS growth expectations in 1 year (57.88%). X Discounted cash flow (Excess Returns Model) 
The calculations below outline how an intrinsic value for Raymond James Financial is arrived at using the Excess Return Model. This approach is used for finance firms where free cash flow is difficult to estimate. 
In the Excess Return Model the value of a firm can be written as the sum of capital invested currently in the firm and the present value of excess returns that the firm expects to make in the future. 
The model is sensitive to the Return on Equity of the company versus the Cost of Equity, how these are calculated is detailed below the main calculation. 
Note the calculations below are per share. 
See our documentation to learn about this calculation. Value of Excess Returns 
Excess Returns = (Stable Return on equity – Cost of equity) (Book Value of Equity per share) 
$3.00 = (17.06% – 10.26%) * $44.22) 
Terminal Value of Excess Returns = Excess Returns / (Cost of Equity - Expected Growth Rate) 
$38.52 = $3.00 / (10.26% - 2.47%) 
Value of Equity = Book Value per share + Terminal Value of Excess Returns 
$82.74 = $44.22 + $38.52 
Stable EPS = Stable Book Value * Return on Equity $7.54 = $44.22 * 17.06% Source: Weighted future Return on Equity estimates from 4 analysts. 
Book Value of Equity per Share: $44.22 Source: Weighted future Book Value estimates from 4 analysts. 
Expected Growth Rate: 2.47% Source: Risk Free Rate/ 10 year Government Bond Rate in USD. Discount to Share Price 