Simply Wall St News What Do Expectations Tell Us About Burlington Stores Inc's (NYSE:BURL) Margins In The Future? To get some insight, I will try to evaluate Burlington Stores's margin behaviour to assist in analysing the revenue and cost anatomy behind the earnings expectations for the future and the impact it has on shareholder returns relative to the wider industry. … See our latest analysis for Burlington Stores Understanding BURL's earnings with profit margin Attractive margins generally indicate a desirable ability to translate sales revenue in to earnings, and return for shareholders. … Margin Calculation for BURL Profit Margin = Net Income ÷ Revenue ∴ Profit Margin = 384.85 Million ÷ 6.10 Billion = 6.31% Burlington Stores's margin has expanded in the past five years, with a 48.23% average growth in net income surpassing 7.29% in average revenue growth, which means that the previous increase in revenue has coincided with a larger portion falling to the bottom line. Simply Wall St - – Full article Is Burlington Stores Inc's (NYSE:BURL) PE Ratio A Signal To Sell For Investors? It compares a stock’s price per share to the stock’s earnings per share. … Formula Price-Earnings Ratio = Price per share ÷ Earnings per share P/E Calculation for BURL Price per share = $116.08 Earnings per share = $3.916 ∴ Price-Earnings Ratio = $116.08 ÷ $3.916 = 29.6x On its own, the P/E ratio doesn’t tell you much; however, it becomes extremely useful when you compare it with other similar companies. … For example, if you are inadvertently comparing riskier firms with BURL, then BURL’s P/E would naturally be higher than its peers since investors would reward its lower risk with a higher price. Simply Wall St - – Full article Does Burlington Stores Inc's (NYSE:BURL) Past Performance Indicate A Stronger Future? After reading Burlington Stores Inc's (NYSE:BURL) most recent earnings announcement (28 October 2017), I found it useful to look back at how the company has performed in the past and compare this against the latest numbers. … Check out our latest analysis for Burlington Stores How Did BURL's Recent Performance Stack Up Against Its Past? … Since these values are somewhat nearsighted, I’ve computed an annualized five-year value for BURL's earnings, which stands at US$107.92M This suggests that, generally, Burlington Stores has been able to steadily improve its profits over the last couple of years as well. Simply Wall St - – Full article At $121.39, Is Burlington Stores Inc (NYSE:BURL) A Buy? Burlington Stores Inc (NYSE:BURL), a specialty retail company based in United States, saw a decent share price growth in the teens level on the NYSE over the last few months. … This means that if you believe the current share price should move towards its intrinsic value over time, a low beta could suggest it is not likely to reach that level anytime soon, and once it’s there, it may be hard to fall back down into an attractive buying range again. … Although value investors would argue that it’s the intrinsic value relative to the price that matter the most, a more compelling investment thesis would be high growth potential at a cheap price. Simply Wall St - – Full article What Should Investors Know About Burlington Stores Inc's (BURL) Future? Burlington Stores Inc (NYSE:BURL)’s impressive earnings growth per share is expected to be a big double-digit 72.15% over the next three years. … This indicates a relatively solid earnings per share growth rate of 72.15% over the next few years, which is an optimistic outlook in the near term. … BURL’s triple-digit earnings growth the past couple of years indicates that the company's past performance is quite revealing of future outcome. Simply Wall St - – Full article Should You Be Tempted To Sell Burlington Stores Inc (BURL) At Its Current PE Ratio? Formula Price-Earnings Ratio = Price per share ÷ Earnings per share P/E Calculation for BURL Price per share = 100.15 Earnings per share = 3.699 ∴ Price-Earnings Ratio = 100.15 ÷ 3.699 = 27.1x The P/E ratio itself doesn’t tell you a lot; however, it becomes very insightful when you compare it with other similar companies. … For example, if you accidentally compared lower growth firms with BURL, then BURL’s P/E would naturally be higher since investors would reward BURL’s higher growth with a higher price. … Alternatively, if you inadvertently compared riskier firms with BURL, BURL’s P/E would again be higher since investors would reward BURL’s lower risk with a higher price as well. Simply Wall St - 