
Equivalent shares outstanding: $10,469,398,560 / $21.740000 = $482 Assumptions The risk free rate of 2.47% is from the 10 year government bond rate in USD. The bottom-up beta is estimated by analysing other companies in the same industry. The Equity Risk Premium is calculated by subtracting the risk free rate from the market return premium (7.53%) (source: Buffet). The dividend discount model is automatically used for companies in the following industries: Banks, Insurance, Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs), Diversified Financial Services and Capital Markets. Future Performance 
How is TIM Participações expected to perform in the next 1 to 3 years based on estimates from 16 analysts? The future performance of a company is measured in the same way as past performance, by looking at estimated growth and how much profit it is expected to make.Future estimates come from professional analysts. Just like forecasting the weather, they don’t always get it right! 17.2% Expected annual growth in earnings. Earnings growth vs Low Risk Savings Is TIM Participações expected to grow at an attractive rate? TIM Participações's earnings growth is expected to exceed the low risk savings rate of 4.5%. Growth vs Market Checks TIM Participações's earnings growth is expected to exceed the US market average. TIM Participações's revenue growth is positive but not above the US market average. Annual Growth Rates Comparison Analysts growth expectations High Growth Checks TIM Participações's earnings are expected to grow by 17.2% yearly, however this is not considered high growth (20% yearly). TIM Participações's revenue is expected to grow by 4.9% yearly, however this is not considered high growth (20% yearly). Past and Future Earnings per Share The accuracy of the analysts who estimate the future performance data can be gauged below. We look back 3 years and see if they were any good at predicting what actually occurred. We also show the highest and lowest estimates looking forward to see if there is a wide range. Performance in 3 years In the same way as past performance we look at the future estimated return (profit) compared to the available funds . We do this looking forward 3 years. TIM Participações is not expected to efficiently use shareholders’ funds in the future (Return on Equity less than 20%). Future performance checks We assess TIM Participações's future performance by looking at: Is the annual earnings growth rate expected to beat the low risk savings rate, plus a premium to keep pace with inflation? Is the annual earnings growth rate expected to beat the average growth rate in earnings of the US market? (1 check) Is the annual revenue growth rate expected to beat the average growth rate in revenue of the US market? (1 check) Is the annual earnings growth rate expected to be above 20%? (1 check) Is the annual revenue growth rate expected to be above 20%? (1 check) Is the Return on Equity in 3 years expected to be over 20%? (1 check) Some of the above checks will fail if the company is expected to be loss making in the relevant year. TIM Participações has a total score of 2/6, see the detailed checks below. Note 1: We use GAAP Net Income Excluding Exceptional Items for our Earnings in all our calculations. 