Dividends are regular cash payments to you from the company, similar to a bank paying you interest on a savings account. Annual Dividend Income 0% Current annual income from Unit dividends. If you bought $2,000 of Unit shares you are expected to receive $0 in your first year as a dividend. Dividend Amount Here we look how much dividend is being paid, if any. Is it above what you can get in a savings account? It is up there with the best dividend paying companies? Unable to evaluate Unit's dividend against the low risk savings benchmark as the company has not reported any payouts. Unable to evaluate Unit's dividend against the market benchmark as the company has not reported any payouts. Annualized Historical and Future Dividends It is important to see if the dividend for a company is stable, and not wildly increasing/decreasing each year. This graph shows you the historical rate to count toward your assessment of the stock.We also check to see if the dividend has increased in the past 10 years. Unable to perform a dividend volatility check as Unit has not reported any payouts. Unable to verify if Unit's dividend has been increasing as the company has not reported any payouts. Current Payout to shareholders What portion of Unit's earnings are paid to the shareholders as a dividend. Unable to calculate sustainability of dividends as Unit has not reported any payouts. Future Payout to shareholders Insufficient estimate data to determine if a dividend will be paid in 3 years and that it will be sustainable. Income/ dividend checks We assess Unit's dividend by checking for: Firstly is the company paying a notable dividend (greater than 0.5%) - if not then the rest of the checks are ignored. Current dividend yield, is there one at all, is it higher than the low risk savings rate, and is it above the top 25% of dividend payers? (2 checks) Have they paid a dividend for 10 years, and during this period has the dividend been volatile (drop of more than 25%)? (1 check) If they have paid a dividend for 10 years has it increased in this time? (1 check) How sustainable is the dividend, can Unit afford to pay it from its earnings today and in 3 years (Payout ratio less than 90%)? (2 checks) Unit has a total score of 0/6, see the detailed checks below. Full details on the Dividends part of the Simply Wall St company analysis model. Management Management is one of the most important areas of a company. We look at unreasonable CEO compensation, how long the team and board of directors have been around for and insider trading. CEO 