Why You Should Look Beyond Cavium Inc’s (NASDAQ:CAVM) Growth Armando Maloney April 15, 2018 
There’s no stopping the Cavium Inc ( NASDAQ:CAVM ) growth train, with analysts forecasting high top-line growth in the near future. I’ve written a brief commentary on the key things you’d need to believe in order to be long CAVM. 
Cavium, Inc. designs, develops, and markets semiconductor processors for intelligent and secure networks in the United States and internationally. Since starting in 2000 in United States, the company has now grown to a market cap of US$5.77B. NasdaqGS:CAVM Future Profit Apr 14th 18 
CAVM is exceeding expectations, with top-line rocketing up by 63.10% from last financial year , and a bottom line growth of 53.22%. Over the past five years, revenue has grown 22.56%, corresponding with larger capital expenditure, which most recently reached US$89.66M. An expected return on investment of 31.42% over the next three years is a result of CAVM’s reinvestment into the business, according to the consensus of broker analysts covering the stock . Net income is expected to reach US$33.12M in the upcoming year, and over the next five years, earnings are predicted to grow at an annual rate of 91.25% on average, compared to the industry average rate of 17.19%. These figures illustrate CAVM’s strong track record of producing profit to its investors, with an efficient approach to reinvesting into the business, and a buoyant future compared to peers in the sector. NasdaqGS:CAVM Historical Debt Apr 14th 18 
CAVM’s financial status is a key element to determine whether or not it is a risky investment – a key aspect most investors overlook when they focus too much on growth. Cavium’s balance sheet is healthy , with high levels of cash generated from its core operating activities (0.23x debt) able to service its borrowings. Although its debt level relative to equity is high at 82.62%, which has been increasing over the past five years from 19.04%, it generates income from lending its cash which, in turn, is able to cover its annual interest payment to its debtors. Management exhibits strong capacity to effectively utilize capital, increasing my conviction of the sustainability of the business going forward. CAVM has high near term liquidity, with short term assets (cash and other liquid assets) amply covering upcoming one-year liabilities, though not enough to cover longer term liabilities. This is not a huge concern, and typical for businesses in this industry. A reason I like CAVM as a business is its low level of fixed assets on its balance sheet (18.01% of total assets) . When I think about the worst-case scenario in order to assess the downside, such as a downturn or bankruptcy, physical assets and inventory will be hard to liquidate and redistribute back to investors. CAVM has virtually no fixed assets, which minimizes its downside risk. 
The current share price for CAVM is US$81.25. At 69.85 million shares, that’s a US$5.77B market cap, which is too high compared to its peers based on its industry and adjusted for its asset level. Currently, it’s overvalued by 115.22%, with a PB ratio of 7.22x vs. the industry average of 3.35x. 
CAVM’s investment thesis is a positive one. The stock is appealing because of its strong fundamentals – financial health, future outlook and track record. However, at its current share price, right now may not be the best time to invest. For all the charts illustrating this analysis, take a look at the Simply Wall St platform , which is where I’ve taken my data from. Daniel Loeb has achieved 16.2% annualized returns over the last 20 years. What is he holding today? Founder of the event-driven, value-oriented hedge fund Third Point, Daniel Loeb is one of the most successful activist investors on the market today. Explore his portfolio’s top holdings, see how he diversifies his investments, past performance and growth estimates. Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Daniel Loeb’s investment portfolio . Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $50 gift card! I'm interested 