Beyond PulteGroup Inc’s (NYSE:PHM) Growth Thomas Auclair April 15, 2018 
There’s no stopping the PulteGroup Inc ( NYSE:PHM ) growth train, with analysts forecasting high top-line growth in the near future. Its share price has been relatively constant over the last three months; most recently US$29.29 at the time of posting. I’ve been researching PHM for a while, and am impressed with the business led by Mr. Ryan Marshall . Today I will touched on some key aspects you should know on a high level, around its financials and growth prospects going forward. 
First, a short introduction to the company is in order. PulteGroup, Inc., through its subsidiaries, primarily engages in the homebuilding business in the United States. Started in 1950, it operates in United States and is recently valued at US$8.33B. NYSE:PHM Future Profit Apr 14th 18 
PHM is exceeding expectations, with top-line rocketing up by 11.80% from last financial year . Since 2013, sales has increased by 11.13%, boosted by prior years of higher capital expenditure, which most recently reached US$32.05M. With continual reinvestment into business operations, a return on investment of 20.30% is forecasted for the upcoming three years, according to the consensus of broker analysts covering the stock . Net income is expected to grow to US$883.13M in the upcoming year, and over the next five years, earnings are expected to grow at an annual rate of 16.53% on average, compared to the industry average growth of 13.03%. These figures illustrate PHM’s strong track record of producing profit to its investors, with an efficient approach to reinvesting into the business, and a buoyant future compared to peers in the sector. NYSE:PHM Historical Debt Apr 14th 18 
Investors tend to get swept up by a company’s growth prospects and promises, but a key element to always look at is its financial health in order to minimize the downside risk of investing. Two major red flags for PHM are its high level of debt at 0.85x equity , and its low level of cash generated from its core operating activities, covering a mere 18.84% of debt. Although debt levels have been declining over time, and its interest income is able to cover interest payment, there’s still a lot of room for improvement on the cash management side. Or the very least, reduce debt to a more prudent level if cash generated from operating activities is insufficient to cushion for potential future headwinds. The current state of PHM’s financial health lowers my conviction around the sustainability of the business going forward. PHM has high near term liquidity, with short term assets (cash and other liquid assets) amply covering upcoming one-year liabilities, as well as long-term commitments. PHM has managed its cash well at a current level of US$278.67M. However, more than a fifth of its total assets are physical assets and inventory, which means that in the worst case scenario, such as a downturn or bankruptcy, a significant portion of assets will be hard to liquidate and redistribute back to investors. 
PHM is now trading at US$29.29 per share. At 286.17 million shares, that’s a US$8.33B market cap – which is too low for a company that has a 5-year free cash flow cumulative average growth rate (CAGR) of 10.73% (source: analyst consensus). With an upcoming 2018 free cash flow figure of US$692.46M, the target price for PHM is US$35.57 . This indicates that the stock is currently priced at a non-trivial 17.66% discount. However, comparing PHM’s current share price to its peers based on its industry and earnings level, it’s overvalued by 28.64%, with a PE ratio of 20.19x vs. the industry average of 15.69x. 
If you’re thinking about buying PHM, you have to believe in its growth story, and the possibility that it has not yet been factored into its share price. However, my main reservation with the company is its financial health. For all the charts illustrating this analysis, take a look at the Simply Wall St platform , which is where I’ve taken my data from. The easiest way to discover new investment ideas Save hours of research when discovering your next investment with Simply Wall St. Looking for companies potentially undervalued based on their future cash flows? Or maybe you’re looking for sustainable dividend payers or high growth potential stocks. Customise your search to easily find new investment opportunities that match your investment goals. And the best thing about it? It’s FREE. Click here to learn more . Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $50 gift card! I'm interested 