Brokers’ Outlook On SFC Energy AG (ETR:F3C) Asher Wright April 15, 2018 
There’s no stopping the SFC Energy AG ( XTRA:F3C ) growth train, with analysts forecasting high top-line growth in the near future. I’ve written a brief commentary on the key things you’d need to believe in order to be long F3C. 
First, a short introduction to the company is in order. SFC Energy AG develops, produces, and distributes power generation systems and components primarily in North America, Europe, Germany, Asia, and internationally. Started in 2000, it operates in Germany and is recently valued at €77.80M. XTRA:F3C Future Profit Apr 14th 18 
There’s no doubt F3C is delivery on its promises, with a soaring annual revenue growth of 23.27% , and a bottom line growth of 58.50%. Since 2013, revenue has increased by 15.12%, concurrent with larger capital expenditure, which most recently reached €496.96K. An expected return on investment of 22.89% over the next three years is a result of F3C’s reinvestment into the business, according to the consensus of broker analysts covering the stock . Net income is expected to increase to €1.40M in the upcoming year, and over the next five years, earnings are predicted to rise at an annual rate of 82.50% on average, compared to the industry average rate of 14.21%. These numbers tell me that F3C has a robust history of delivering profit to shareholders, with a disciplined approach to reinvesting into the company, and a bright future relative to its competitors in the industry. XTRA:F3C Historical Debt Apr 14th 18 
Minimizing the downside is arguably more important than maximizing the upside. Generally the first check to meet is financial health – a strong indicator of an investment’s risk. SFC Energyhas an enviable balance sheet , with high levels of cash generated from its core operating activities (0.42x debt) able to service its borrowings. Furthermore, F3C’s debt level is at an appropriate 29.32% of equity, though it has been increasing over the past five years from 1.03%. F3C also generates income from lending its cash which, in turn, is able to cover its annual interest payment to its debtors. The company shows the ability to manage its capital requirements well, increasing my conviction of the sustainability of the business going forward. F3C has high near term liquidity, with short term assets (cash and other liquid assets) amply covering upcoming one-year liabilities, as well as long-term commitments. F3C has managed its cash well at a current level of €4.41M. However, more than a fifth of its total assets are physical assets and inventory, which means that in the worst case scenario, such as a downturn or bankruptcy, a significant portion of assets will be hard to liquidate and redistribute back to investors. 
F3C is now trading at €8.46 per share. With 9.75 million shares, that’s a €77.80M market cap, which is too high compared to its peers based on its industry and adjusted for its asset level. Currently, it’s overvalued by 189.00%, with a PB ratio of 5.5x vs. the industry average of 1.9x. 
F3C’s investment thesis is a positive one. I’m attracted to the company because of its strong fundamentals – financial health, future outlook and track record. However, at its current share price, right now may not be the best time to invest. For all the charts illustrating this analysis, take a look at the Simply Wall St platform , which is where I’ve taken my data from. Warren Buffet’s Portfolio: What is he holding? Get insight into the mind of the most renowned value investor on the planet. Take a look at the portfolio’s top holdings, past performance, how he diversifies his investments, growth estimates and explore investment ideas based on Buffet’s investing methodology. Click here to view a FREE infographic analysis of Warren Buffet’s investment portfolio . Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $50 gift card! I'm interested 