Analysts Expect Breakeven For Acacia Pharma Group Plc (EBR:ACPH) Devin Koller April 16, 2018 
Acacia Pharma Group Plc’s ( ENXTBR:ACPH ) : Acacia Pharma Group Limited, a pharmaceutical company, focuses on the development and commercialization of hospital products for surgical and cancer patients in the United States and internationally. The €185.30M market-cap company announced a latest loss of -UK£12.11M on 31 December 2016 for its most recent financial year result. As path to profitability is the topic on ACPH’s investors mind, I’ve decided to gauge market sentiment. In this article, I will touch on the expectations for ACPH’s growth and when analysts expect the company to become profitable. Check out our latest analysis for Acacia Pharma Group 
According to the industry analysts covering ACPH, breakeven is near. They anticipate the company to incur a final loss in 2021, before generating positive profits of UK£4.60M in 2022. So, ACPH is predicted to breakeven approximately 4 years from now. What rate will ACPH have to grow year-on-year in order to breakeven on this date? Using a line of best fit, I calculated an average annual growth rate of 11.31%, which seems relatively fair. Should the business grow at a slower rate, it will become profitable at a later date than expected. ENXTBR:ACPH Past Future Earnings Apr 16th 18 
I’m not going to go through company-specific developments for ACPH given that this is a high-level summary, but, bear in mind that typically a pharma company has lumpy cash flows which are contingent on the drug and stage of product development the business is in. This means, a double-digit growth rate is not abnormal as the company is beginning to reap the benefits of earlier investments. 
Before I wrap up, there’s one issue worth mentioning. ACPH currently has negative equity on its balance sheet. Accounting methods used to deal with losses accumulated over time can cause this to occur. This is because liabilities are carried forward into the future until it cancels. Oftentimes, losses exist only on paper but other times, it can be a red flag. Next Steps: 
This article is not intended to be a comprehensive analysis on ACPH, so if you are interested in understanding the company at a deeper level, take a look at ACPH’s company page on Simply Wall St . I’ve also compiled a list of key factors you should further examine: Historical Track Record : What has ACPH’s performance been like over the past? Go into more detail in the past track record analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of our analysis for more clarity. Management Team : An experienced management team on the helm increases our confidence in the business – take a look at who sits on Acacia Pharma Group’s board and the CEO’s back ground . Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . Daniel Loeb has achieved 16.2% annualized returns over the last 20 years. What is he holding today? Founder of the event-driven, value-oriented hedge fund Third Point, Daniel Loeb is one of the most successful activist investors on the market today. Explore his portfolio’s top holdings, see how he diversifies his investments, past performance and growth estimates. Click here to view a FREE detailed infographic analysis of Daniel Loeb’s investment portfolio . Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $50 gift card! I'm interested 