Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust (TSE:APR.UN): What You Have To Know Before Buying For The Upcoming Dividend Collin Greene March 25, 2018 
On the 16 April 2018, Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust ( TSX:APR.UN ) will be paying shareholders an upcoming dividend amount of CA$0.07 per share. However, investors must have bought the company’s stock before 28 March 2018 in order to qualify for the payment. That means you have only 3 days left! Investors looking for higher income-generating stocks to add to their portfolio should keep reading, as I examine Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust’s latest financial data to analyse its dividend characteristics. View our latest analysis for Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust 5 questions to ask before buying a dividend stock 
If you are a dividend investor, you should always assess these five key metrics: Is their annual yield among the top 25% of dividend payers? Does it consistently pay out dividends without missing a payment of significantly cutting payout? Has the amount of dividend per share grown over the past? Can it afford to pay the current rate of dividends from its earnings? Will the company be able to keep paying dividend based on the future earnings growth? TSX:APR.UN Historical Dividend Yield Mar 24th 18 How well does Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust fit our criteria? The company currently pays out 51.54% of its earnings as a dividend, according to its trailing twelve-month data, which is rather low compared to other REITs. Generally, REITs are expected to pay out the majority of its earnings to provide a regular income stream for their investors. Going forward, analysts expect APR.UN’s payout to increase to 85.48% of its earnings, which leads to a dividend yield of 7.74%. If dividend is a key criteria in your investment consideration, then you need to make sure the dividend stock you’re eyeing out is reliable in its payments. The reality is that it is too early to consider Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust as a dividend investment. It has only been consistently paying dividends for 3 years, however, standard practice for reliable payers is to look for a 10-year minimum track record. Relative to peers, Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust has a yield of 7.76%, which is high for REITs stocks. Next Steps: 
With this in mind, I definitely rank Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust as a strong dividend stock, and makes it worth further research for anyone who likes steady income generation from their portfolio. Given that this is purely a dividend analysis, I urge potential investors to try and get a good understanding of the underlying business and its fundamentals before deciding on an investment. Below, I’ve compiled three pertinent factors you should look at: Valuation : What is APR.UN worth today? Even if the stock is a cash cow, it’s not worth an infinite price. The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether APR.UN is currently mispriced by the market. Management Team : An experienced management team on the helm increases our confidence in the business – take a look at who sits on Automotive Properties Real Estate Investment Trust’s board and the CEO’s back ground . Other Dividend Rockstars : Are there better dividend payers with stronger fundamentals out there? Check out our free list of these great stocks here . Discounted cash flow calculation for every stock Simply Wall St does a detailed discounted cash flow calculation every 6 hours for every stock on the market, so if you want to find the intrinsic value of any company just search here . It’s FREE. Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $50 gift card! I'm interested 