What Are The Drivers Of UK Oil & Gas Investments PLC’s (LON:UKOG) Risks? Declan Brown March 26, 2018 
If you are looking to invest in UK Oil & Gas Investments PLC’s ( AIM:UKOG ), or currently own the stock, then you need to understand its beta in order to understand how it can affect the risk of your portfolio. Generally, an investor should consider two types of risk that impact the market value of UKOG. The first risk to think about is company-specific, which can be diversified away by investing in other companies in order to lower your exposure to one particular stock. The other type of risk, which cannot be diversified away, is market risk. Every stock in the market is exposed to this risk, which arises from macroeconomic factors such as economic growth and geo-political tussles just to name a few. 
Different characteristics of a stock expose it to various levels of market risk. A widely-used metric to measure a stock’s market risk is beta, and the broad market index represents a beta value of one. A stock with a beta greater than one is expected to exhibit higher volatility resulting from market-wide shocks compared to one with a beta below one. Check out our latest analysis for UK Oil & Gas Investments An interpretation of UKOG’s beta 
UK Oil & Gas Investments’s five-year beta of 1.21 means that the company’s value will swing up by more than the market during prosperous times, but also drop down by more in times of downturns. This level of volatility indicates bigger risk for investors who passively invest in the stock market index. Based on this beta value, UKOG can help magnify your portfolio return, especially if it is predominantly made up of low-beta stocks. If the market is going up, a higher exposure to the upside from a high-beta stock can push up your portfolio return. AIM:UKOG Income Statement Mar 26th 18 Does UKOG’s size and industry impact the expected beta? 
With a market cap of UK£53.32M, UKOG falls within the small-cap spectrum of stocks, which are found to experience higher relative risk compared to larger companies. Furthermore, the company operates in the oil and gas industry, which has been found to have high sensitivity to market-wide shocks. Therefore, investors may expect high beta associated with small companies, as well as those operating in the oil and gas industry, relative to those more well-established firms in a more defensive industry. This is consistent with UKOG’s individual beta value we discussed above. Fundamental factors can also drive the cyclicality of the stock, which we will take a look at next. Is UKOG’s cost structure indicative of a high beta? 
During times of economic downturn, low demand may cause companies to readjust production of their goods and services. It is more difficult for companies to lower their cost, if the majority of these costs are generated by fixed assets. Therefore, this is a type of risk which is associated with higher beta. I test UKOG’s ratio of fixed assets to total assets in order to determine how high the risk is associated with this type of constraint. UKOG’s fixed assets to total assets ratio of higher than 30% shows that the company uses up a big chunk of its capital on assets that are hard to scale up or down in short notice. As a result, this aspect of UKOG indicates a higher beta than a similar size company with a lower portion of fixed assets on their balance sheet. Similarly, UKOG’s beta value conveys the same message. What this means for you: 
You could benefit from higher returns from UKOG during times of economic growth. Its higher fixed cost isn’t a major concern given margins are covered with high consumer demand. Though, in times of a downturn, it may be safe to look at a more defensive stock which can cushion the impact of lower demand. In order to fully understand whether UKOG is a good investment for you, we also need to consider important company-specific fundamentals such as UK Oil & Gas Investments’s financial health and performance track record. I urge you to complete your research by taking a look at the following: Financial Health : Is UKOG’s operations financially sustainable? Balance sheets can be hard to analyze, which is why we’ve done it for you. Check out our financial health checks here . Past Track Record : Has UKOG been consistently performing well irrespective of the ups and downs in the market? Go into more detail in the past performance analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of UKOG’s historicals for more clarity. Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . TOP undervalued stocks for 2017 Looking for undervalued stocks? The trick is not to follow the herd. These overlooked companies are now trading for less than their intrinsic value. Click here to see them for FREE on the Simply Wall St platform . Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $50 gift card! I'm interested 