Should You Be Concerned About Valiant Holding AG’s (VTX:VATN) Risks? Michael Canly March 28, 2018 
The banking sector has been experiencing growth as a result of improving credit quality from post-GFC recovery. Valiant Holding AG ( SWX:VATN ) is a small-cap bank with a market capitalisation of CHF1.77B. Its profit and value are directly impacted by its borrowers’ ability to pay which is driven by the level of economic growth. This is because growth determines the stability of a borrower’s salary as well as the level of interest rates. Risk associated with repayment is measured by bad debt which is written off as an expense, impacting Valiant Holding’s bottom line. Today I will take you through some bad debt and liability measures to analyse the level of risky assets held by the bank. Looking through a risk-lens is a useful way to assess the attractiveness of Valiant Holding’s a stock investment. Check out our latest analysis for Valiant Holding SWX:VATN Historical Debt Mar 28th 18 Does Valiant Holding Understand Its Own Risks? 
Valiant Holding’s ability to forecast and provision for its bad loans indicates it has a good understanding of the level of risk it is taking on. If the level of provisioning covers 100% or more of the actual bad debt expense the bank writes off, then it is relatively accurate and prudent in its bad debt provisioning. Given its high bad loan to bad debt ratio of 154.91% Valiant Holding has cautiously over-provisioned 54.91% above the appropriate minimum, indicating a safe and prudent forecasting methodology, and its ability to anticipate the factors contributing to its bad loan levels. What Is An Appropriate Level Of Risk? Valiant Holding’s operations expose it to risky assets by lending to borrowers who may not be able to repay their loans. Loans that cannot be recovered by the bank are known as bad loans and typically should make up less than 3% of its total loans. Loans are written off as expenses when they are not repaid, which comes directly out of Valiant Holding’s profit. Since bad loans only make up a very insignificant 0.17% of its total assets, the bank exhibits very strict bad loan management and is exposed to a relatively insignificant level of risk in terms of default. Is There Enough Safe Form Of Borrowing? Valiant Holding makes money by lending out its various forms of borrowings. Deposits from customers tend to bear the lowest risk given the relatively stable amount available and interest rate. Generally, the higher level of deposits a bank retains, the less risky it is deemed to be. Valiant Holding’s total deposit level of 72.87% of its total liabilities is within the sensible margin for for financial institutions which generally has a ratio of 50%. This indicates a prudent level of the bank’s safer form of borrowing and a prudent level of risk. Next Steps: 
Valiant Holding exhibits prudent management of risky assets and lending behaviour with sensible levels for all three ratios. It has maintained a sufficient level of deposits against liabilities and reasonably provisioned for the level of bad debt. The company’s sound and sensible lending strategy gives us more conviction in its ability to manage its operational risks which makes an investment in Valiant Holding a less risky one. Keep in mind that a stock investment requires research on more than just its operational side. I’ve put together three essential factors you should further examine: Future Outlook : What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for VATN’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for VATN’s outlook. Valuation : What is VATN worth today? Has the future growth potential already been factored into the price? The intrinsic value infographic in our free research report helps visualize whether VATN is currently mispriced by the market. Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . These great dividend stocks are beating your savings account Not only have these stocks been reliable dividend payers for the last 10 years but with the yield over 3% they are also easily beating your savings account (let alone the possible capital gains). Click here to see them for FREE on Simply Wall St . Share this article: Michael Canly Michael has been in the consulting industry for over 15 years. He studied a degree in management in the Netherlands. Learning about the share market from his father, who invested the family’s retirement savings into a diversified portfolio of hand picked shares, Michael started his own small portfolio. Over the last 20 years, he has built it up to a sizeable market value. A passionate dividend investor, he hopes to one day be able to retire and live off his dividend income. Reach Michael by sending an email at . 