A Look At MagnaChip Semiconductor Corporation (NYSE:MX) And The Tech Sector Bruce Howe March 22, 2018 
MagnaChip Semiconductor Corporation ( NYSE:MX ), is a US$343.74M small-cap, which operates in the tech hardware industry based in Luxembourg. The line between hardware and software companies has blurred, with many businesses shifting from pure-hardware to software-defined hardware and from products to services and solutions. As enterprises in various industry sector look to technology to enable their own transformations, the opportunities for technology companies have widened extensively. Tech analysts are forecasting for the entire hardware tech industry, a strong double-digit growth of 28.49% in the upcoming year , and a massive growth of 39.22% over the next couple of years. Not surprisingly, this rate is more than double the growth rate of the US stock market as a whole. Is the tech industry an attractive sector-play right now? Below, I will examine the sector growth prospects, and also determine whether MagnaChip Semiconductor is a laggard or leader relative to its tech sector peers. Check out our latest analysis for MagnaChip Semiconductor What’s the catalyst for MagnaChip Semiconductor’s sector growth? 
NYSE:MX Future Profit Mar 21st 18 The battle for competitive advantage has led businesses to adopt new the cutting-edge technology, or risk being left behind. Many technologies are now coming into their own as their power and speed increase and the cost of delivering them goes down. And some are pursing growth through various strategies including new M&A, collaboration and alliances, as well as cost reduction and organic growth. In the previous year, the industry saw growth in the teens, beating the US market growth of 10.73%. MagnaChip Semiconductor lags the pack with its which indicates the company will be growing at a slower pace than its tech hardware peers. As an industry laggard, MagnaChip Semiconductor may be a cheaper stock relative to its peers. Is MagnaChip Semiconductor and the sector relatively cheap? 
NYSE:MX PE PEG Gauge Mar 21st 18 The tech hardware sector’s PE is currently hovering around 26.15x, above the broader US stock market PE of 18.51x. This means the industry, on average, is relatively overvalued compared to the wider market. However, the industry returned a similar 12.09% on equities compared to the market’s 10.55%. On the stock-level, MagnaChip Semiconductor is trading at a lower PE ratio of 4.04x, making it cheaper than the average tech stock. Next Steps: MagnaChip Semiconductor is an tech industry laggard in terms of its future growth outlook. This is possibly reflected in the PE ratio, with the stock trading below its peers. If the stock has been on your watchlist for a while, now may be the time to dig deeper. Although the market is expecting lower growth for the company relative to its peers, MagnaChip Semiconductor is also trading at a discount, meaning that there could be some value from a potential mispricing. However, before you make a decision on the stock, I suggest you look at MagnaChip Semiconductor’s fundamentals in order to build a holistic investment thesis. Financial Health : Does it have a healthy balance sheet? Take a look at our free balance sheet analysis with six simple checks on key factors like leverage and risk. Historical Track Record : What has MX’s performance been like over the past? Go into more detail in the past track record analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of our analysis for more clarity. Other High-Growth Alternatives : Are there other high-growth stocks you could be holding instead of MagnaChip Semiconductor? Explore our interactive list of stocks with large growth potential to get an idea of what else is out there you may be missing! TOP undervalued stocks for 2017 Looking for undervalued stocks? The trick is not to follow the herd. These overlooked companies are now trading for less than their intrinsic value. Click here to see them for FREE on the Simply Wall St platform . Share this article: 
Expertise: Quantitative finance, equities 
Investment style: Contrarian, buy and hold, long-term horizon, growth 
Bruce has over five years of experience in finance. He has previously worked at a variety of accounting firms and is currently working at a hedge fund in America. Having obtained a huge amount of knowledge about equity markets over the years, Bruce enjoys helping new investors to gain a better understanding of the share market and portfolio management. 
Reach Bruce at . 