MagnaChip Semiconductor Corporation (NYSE:MX): How Does It Impact Your Portfolio? Blake Harford March 29, 2018 
For MagnaChip Semiconductor Corporation’s ( NYSE:MX ) shareholders, and also potential investors in the stock, understanding how the stock’s risk and return characteristics can impact your portfolio is important. There are two types of risks that affect the market value of a listed company such as MX. The first type is company-specific risk, which can be diversified away by investing in other companies to reduce exposure to one particular stock. The second type is market risk, one that you cannot diversify away, since it arises from macroeconomic factors which directly affects all the stocks in the market. 
Not all stocks are expose to the same level of market risk. A popular measure of market risk for a stock is its beta, and the market as a whole represents a beta value of one. Any stock with a beta of greater than one is considered more volatile than the market, and those with a beta less than one is generally less volatile. Check out our latest analysis for MagnaChip Semiconductor An interpretation of MX’s beta 
With a five-year beta of 0.21, MagnaChip Semiconductor appears to be a less volatile company compared to the rest of the market. The stock will exhibit muted movements in both the downside and upside, in response to changing economic conditions, whereas the general market may move by a lot more. MX’s beta indicates it is a stock that investors may find valuable if they want to reduce the overall market risk exposure of their stock portfolio. NYSE:MX Income Statement Mar 28th 18 Does MX’s size and industry impact the expected beta? 
MX, with its market capitalisation of US$340.32M, is a small-cap stock, which generally have higher beta than similar companies of larger size. In addition to size, MX also operates in the semiconductor industry, which has commonly demonstrated strong reactions to market-wide shocks. Therefore, investors may expect high beta associated with small companies, as well as those operating in the semiconductor industry, relative to those more well-established firms in a more defensive industry. This is an interesting conclusion, since both MX’s size and industry indicates the stock should have a higher beta than it currently has. There may be a more fundamental driver which can explain this inconsistency, which we will examine below. Can MX’s asset-composition point to a higher beta? 
During times of economic downturn, low demand may cause companies to readjust production of their goods and services. It is more difficult for companies to lower their cost, if the majority of these costs are generated by fixed assets. Therefore, this is a type of risk which is associated with higher beta. I examine MX’s ratio of fixed assets to total assets to see whether the company is highly exposed to the risk of this type of constraint. With a fixed-assets-to-total-assets ratio of greater than 30%, MX appears to be a company that invests a large amount of capital in assets that are hard to scale down on short-notice. Thus, we can expect MX to be more volatile in the face of market movements, relative to its peers of similar size but with a lower proportion of fixed assets on their books. However, this is the opposite to what MX’s actual beta value suggests, which is lower stock volatility relative to the market. What this means for you: 
You could benefit from lower risk during times of economic decline by holding onto MX. Take into account your portfolio sensitivity to the market before you invest in the stock, as well as where we are in the current economic cycle. Depending on the composition of your portfolio, MX may be a valuable stock to hold onto in order to cushion the impact of a downturn. In order to fully understand whether MX is a good investment for you, we also need to consider important company-specific fundamentals such as MagnaChip Semiconductor’s financial health and performance track record. I highly recommend you to complete your research by taking a look at the following: Future Outlook : What are well-informed industry analysts predicting for MX’s future growth? Take a look at our free research report of analyst consensus for MX’s outlook. Past Track Record : Has MX been consistently performing well irrespective of the ups and downs in the market? Go into more detail in the past performance analysis and take a look at the free visual representations of MX’s historicals for more clarity. Other High-Performing Stocks : Are there other stocks that provide better prospects with proven track records? Explore our free list of these great stocks here . Share this article: Blake Harford Blake has never worked in the financial sector, but has not let that inhibit his passion for the share market. He actually likes the fact that his investing is something he really enjoys doing, and would prefer to not have that crossover with his job in the biomedical sector. He has over 20 years experience in the market and is also a wicked guitar player! Reach Blake by sending an email at . 