Value Stocks Investors Love Phillip Young March 30, 2018 
Energy One and NRW Holdings are two of the companies on my list that I consider are undervalued. Smart investors can make money from this discrepancy by buying these shares, because they believe the current market prices will eventually move towards their true value. If you’re looking for capital gains in your next investment, I suggest you take a look at my list of potentially undervalued stocks. Energy One Limited ( ASX:EOL ) 
Energy One Limited supplies software products and services for wholesale energy, environmental, and carbon trading markets in Australia, New Zealand, Singapore, and Philippines. Energy One is headed by CEO Shaun Ankers. With the stock’s market cap sitting at AUD A$17.09M, it falls under the small-cap stocks category 
EOL’s stock is currently floating at around -71% lower than its true value of $2.85, at the market price of AU$0.84, based on my discounted cash flow model. This mismatch indicates a potential opportunity to buy low. In addition to this, EOL’s PE ratio is currently around 21.39x against its its Software peer level of, 30.73x indicating that relative to other stocks in the industry, you can purchase EOL’s stock for a lower price right now. EOL also has a healthy balance sheet, as short-term assets amply cover upcoming and long-term liabilities. More on Energy One here . ASX:EOL PE PEG Gauge Mar 29th 18 NRW Holdings Limited ( ASX:NWH ) 
NRW Holdings Limited, through its subsidiaries, provides civil and mining contracting services to resource and infrastructure sectors in Australia. Founded in 1994, and headed by CEO Julian Pemberton, the company currently employs 1,000 people and with the company’s market cap sitting at AUD A$489.22M, it falls under the small-cap category. 
NWH’s shares are currently floating at around -25% beneath its actual level of $1.75, at the market price of AU$1.32, based on its expected future cash flows. This mismatch indicates a potential opportunity to buy low. What’s even more appeal is that NWH’s PE ratio is trading at 13.81x against its its Construction peer level of, 18.83x indicating that relative to other stocks in the industry, you can buy NWH’s shares at a cheaper price. NWH is also a financially robust company, with current assets covering liabilities in the near term and over the long run. It’s debt-to-equity ratio of 42.01% has been dropping over the past couple of years showing NWH’s capability to pay down its debt. Dig deeper into NRW Holdings here . ASX:NWH PE PEG Gauge Mar 29th 18 APN Property Group Limited ( ASX:APD ) 
APN Property Group Limited operates as a real estate investment fund manager in Australia and internationally. The company was established in 1996 and has a market cap of AUD A$124.93M, putting it in the small-cap category. 
APD’s shares are now floating at around -49% lower than its value of $0.84, at the market price of AU$0.42, based on my discounted cash flow model. The mismatch signals a potential chance to invest in APD at a discounted price. Furthermore, APD’s PE ratio is trading at 7.65x compared to its Capital Markets peer level of, 18.98x meaning that relative to its comparable company group, APD can be bought at a cheaper price right now. APD is also a financially healthy company, with near-term assets able to cover upcoming and long-term liabilities. Dig deeper into APN Property Group here . ASX:APD PE PEG Gauge Mar 29th 18 
For more financially sound, undervalued companies to add to your portfolio, explore this interactive list of undervalued stocks . Warren Buffet’s Portfolio: What is he holding? Get insight into the mind of the most renowned value investor on the planet. Take a look at the portfolio’s top holdings, past performance, how he diversifies his investments, growth estimates and explore investment ideas based on Buffet’s investing methodology. Click here to view a FREE infographic analysis of Warren Buffet’s investment portfolio . Share this article: Phillip Young Phillip has been in senior corporate finance roles for the last 15 years. However, his investment portfolio has been pursued on his own accord outside of his regular day job. He is an advocate of value investing and has always been a fan of Warren Buffet and Ben Graham’s investment methodologies. He loves researching new stocks, and believes it’s “fundamental analysis or no analysis!”. Reach Phillip by sending an email at . 