By Simon Peter Atwiine - March 31, 2018 
What a way to enter this long Easter holiday with a none-loan Shs37 million. Just like many other winners, cash from Fortebet continued to flow to another customer (punter) after staking only 8000/= and winning a whopping Shs37, 689,340. 
Most interestingly, this lucky punter selected 20 games and they all won. His winning trick was only one-selecting as many home wins as possible. Below is how he selected the winning games; On his betting slip, he selected a total of 10 games, confident that the home teams would win. These matches included; Palmeras SP-Novorizontino and Chapecoense-Hercilio Luz (from Brasil), Opova-Usit Nad Labem (from Zchec Republic), Wolfsburg-Slavia Prague (UEFA women’s Champions League). Under the same category, he also matches from under 21 Euro qualifiers and these included; Georgia-Faroe Islands, Hungary Cyprus, Denmark-Bosinia & Her and Ireland-Macedonia. To make his 10 games under this category, he too selected these matches; Peterhead-Annan from Scotland league 2 and New York RB-Minesota from USA MLS. All the above home teams won their games. He now needed more 10 teams to make his betting ticket complete. He therefore went ahead to select home wins plus atleast 2 match goals. These matches included; Bahia-Altos (from Brasil), Hvidovre-Kolding IF (Denmark second division), Portsmouth-Oxford (English League 1), Coventry-Grimsby (English League 2), Tranmere-Eastleigh (English National Luague), Manchester City-Linkopings (Women Champions League) and Columbus-DC United from USA MLS. 
He too selected 2 more teams and predicted that they would either win at home or afford a draw as the worst. These included; Bohemans-Gray (Ireland Premier Division) and Perlamo-Carpi (Italian Serie B). Leyton Orient-Working from English National League is the other match the punter saw will earn him money. He predicted that the match would end with atleast 2 goals and indeed it ended 3-0. This betting slip carried a total odd of 5,542.55, generating the above money. 
As soon as he won, his money was instantly paid out to him as Fortebet usually does https://www.fortebet.ug