Leaving footprints in the heart of a child Min Atek In Summary Often, the children will put me to task about my absence. I have had to compromise or make a promise that I shall cancel a meeting to be home to tuck them in or to pick them from school. Once one child said, ‘mummy, even when the bathing water is cold, your hands make it warm!’ Awww! Advertisement By Min Atek 
’Mommy where are you?’ That is a question I have been asked more times than I can recall over the phone. Sometimes behind that question is a tale of good news and the one asking is full of excitement because they can hardly wait to share. Sometimes that has been the most heart wrenching question from a child before he breaks down in tears. 
On one particular occasion, I had called home to see how the children were. The younger one could hardly say much so most of the time he only sang his famous song! This time he did not really want to sing and he asked where I was. Then he proceeded to inform me in his matter-of-factly way that he wanted his mother. 
Ordinarily, that would have been a sweet sentiment from a little boy who quite often did not seem to need his mother. What compounded the issue was the fact that I was many miles away from home in Istanbul! I could feel my heart tear into pieces as the quest for his mother turned into a deep-seated cry, ‘I wannntii you!’ To this day, I am not sure who was in more pain. 
Recently I was listening to a talk on the role of fathers. The speaker talked of creating footprints in the life and heart of a child. I found the analogy of footprints intriguing. I could imagine someone walking on wet cement and leaving footprints which would dry as the cement dried. 
The speaker was not kind to fathers who, though present through financial provision, are significantly absent and silent in the more delicate and salient issues such as emotional and physical presence. She spoke of how in a quest to acquire material things, many lose ground where it matters the most.She rebuked folks who have time for their social lives at the expense of little lives. 
Often, the children will put me to task about my absence. I have had to compromise or make a promise that I shall cancel a meeting to be home to tuck them in or to pick them from school. Once one child said, ‘mummy, even when the bathing water is cold, your hands make it warm!’ Awww! 
He normally says he likes to have his family nearby. And he says his mother’s presence comforts him. The children find comfort in their parent’s presence. 
mirembeabola@gmail.com