Mutesi, a beauty keen on a better environment Josephine Mutesi advocates for better environmental practices. Photo by Edgar Batte. In Summary Green at heart. Josephine Mutesi was brought up to respect and conserve the environment. As winner of the Miss Earth crown, she spends her time advocating for cleaner practices, writes Edgar. R. Batte Advertisement By Edgar. R. Batte 
To a stranger, Josephine Mutesi would describe herself as a humble, determined and self-motivated person. She is the reigning Miss Earth beauty queen, a pageant that channels its efforts towards promotion of environmental awareness. 
“I care about the earth and its wellbeing,” she says. She was one of the guests invited to the launch of celebrations to mark 20 years since Ngamba Chimpanzee Sanctuary and Wildlife Conservation was established. She is the sanctuary’s Conservation Education Ambassador. 
Charity began at home Mutesi’s care for mother Earth or the environment was something her parents mentored her into. She says, “I passed through the right hands. My parents and teachers nurtured me to be passionate about the earth. Miss Earth Uganda gave me a platform to advocate for environmental preservation, conservation and protection.” 
And it was through things as simple as cleaning compounds and placing rubbish in the right place as well as planting trees. Her father owns acres of pine trees and she was part of the planting team. These were some of the values imparted in her while growing up. 
Environmental campaigner At the moment, she is running a social media environmental awareness campaign with a focus on 5Rs which are Rethink, Reduce, Reuse, Recycle and Respect. Her campaign has started accruing some impact. “The public is getting more aware of how to preserve, conserve and protect the environment. I have been invited to engage in community clean-ups for example, I was invited to Iganga by a president of the +256 Youths Platform, Meddie Makuza, for community clean-ups.” 
“I also planted trees in Gulu together with the Rotaract Earth Initiative members. I was recently on a field tour with the National Forest Authority (NFA) and its stakeholders where we planted trees and also visited some ecotourism sites in the forest such as Griffin Falls where zip lining is done,” Mutesi shares about some of the projects she has been part of to save the environment. 
Some of the key challenges threatening earth are man-made. “We as humans are the biggest enemy to the earth. Things we do like deforestation, releasing wastes to the environment, swamp reclamation to mention but a few will in turn lead to climate change which is the biggest threat to humans,” she explains. She adds, “In Uganda, we have a poor waste management culture and this has not only affected the quality of life of human beings but also that of other creatures. It has also made them prone to diseases and death.Due to increased urbanisation, we have seen swamps being reclaimed to raise buildings. This has led to flooding due to poor drainage during wet seasons.” 
Fight against global warming Miss Earth argues that trees are the lungs of the earth as they absorb carbondioxide but they are continuously cut down which has led to increase of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere leading to global warming. Today, when it shines, the heat becomes too much. The stretch of desertification is expanding too due to deforestation and poor management of the environment. 
To society, the beauty queen says making the earth a better place to stay starts with you as an individual, adding that everyone should rethink their actions before creating havoc and Respect what Mother Earth has to offer. ‘Your environment is your responsibility’.On her wish list is to visit schools during awareness campaigns to majorly impart value, knowledge and skills to 
students in regard to environmental preservation, conservation and protection.She is planning to write letters to the schools through Miss Earth Uganda to request to share her advocacy which is environmental awareness using the 5Rs with their students and pupils.Mutesi is currently pursuing a bachelor’s degree in Pharmacy at Makerere University. She holds a diploma in. 
Orthopaedic medicine from Uganda Institute of Allied Health Management Sciences-Mulago. She attended high school at St Joseph’s Girls Senior Secondary School, Nsambya where she did her Uganda Advanced Certificate of Education (U.A.C.E). 
For Uganda Certificate of Education (U.C.E), she studied at Uganda Martyrs Secondary School, Namugongo. Before that, she was a pupil at St. Patrick Kigulu Girls Primary School. Before vying for the Miss Earth crown, she worked at Abacus pharmaceutical company as a medical representative. 
YOUR SAY Eric Ntalo Marketing, Public Relations Officer, Ngamba Chimpanzee Sanctuary and Wildlife Conservation: “Josephine Mutesi’s character says much about her. She is one of the most elegant beauty queens Uganda has presented in the last six years. She is composed, humble, intelligent, and there is might in her height. She is our Conservation Education Ambassador. Eighty per cent of her earth video which was presented at the global competition was shot at Ngamba Chimpanzee Sanctuary and within the neighbouring communities. She has also taken part in Ngamba Island’s waste management programme. Ngamba is proud of the Miss Earth Initiative and of Mutesi.” 
Aisha Alibhai Public Relations Officer (PRO), National Forestry Authority“NFA trained Miss Earth on tree nursery practices and management. She has been a great conservation ambassador. She has promoted ecological tourism through a documentary she did for her competition in the Philippines. She has participated in tree planting in various places. Mutesi is indeed a beauty who is a conservationist at heart.” advertisement