Natasha Sinayobye steps out with barely there accessories at the Abryanz Fashion Awards. Courtesy photo. In Summary Going back to the question above, ‘Is accessorising out?’ No it is not. But, there is a new meaning to it . So it is not only safe’ to go without accessories now, it is in. Of course, it does not hurt to wear that statement necklace when there is an opportunity to. After all, seeing our mothers in those statement pearl necklaces and chunky earrings is the beauty we never get enough of. In style. If your dress is cut in an elaborate style or has plenty of detail, you may not need accessories and just as well, because it is trendy not to accessorise. Advertisement 
We all understand the role accessories play in making an outfit, but no one appreciated their importance more than our mothers (and grandmothers) in the 70s and 80s. Flipping through vintage photo albums and seeing them pose in ‘super tiny sunglasses’, kitten heels and ‘lots of jewellery’ was fascinating. 
Even after the years have gone by, and their style has probably evolved to only ‘maxi Kitenge dresses and ‘busuutis’ for special occasions, their love for ‘a chunky pearl necklace’, earrings or a little bit of both has never waned.Fast forward to 2018, where experimenting and being trendy reigns supreme, accessorising is slowly losing steam. In fact, it is losing its literal meaning. The new art of accessorising is, ‘No accessories at all’. Looking at the red carpet choices of most of the women at the recently held Academy awards, you will notice that only a few accessories made it to the red carpet. 
Accessories include but are not limited to shoes, bags and jewellery. They now include your skin, the colour palette of your outfit and more. Here is how to accessorise in 2018. 
Your skin Wearing a dress that shows a peek of your skin is enough accessorising, you might need to pass on jewellery. In this case, the beauty of that little skin you are showing becomes the accessory of your outfit. This can be sheer which shows skin without letting out too much, or cutouts. It can also be through a cropped top. The silhouette and design of your dress Allow yourself to appreciate the craftsmanship and architecture involved in making that dress you are wearing. The sharp cuts, dramatic drapes and detail could be all the accessorising you need for your outfit. A simple understated pair of shoes, and ‘a very little purse’ are just enough. 
Tiny little purses Accessories are losing steam so much that even purses are shrinking by the minute. The hottest handbag right now barely carries all your essentials. Yes, tiny structured hand bags are the new cool. You don’t need to carry a large purse to make a statement. 
Rings Looking to update your accessory shelf? Invest in sets of rings in all shades and sparkle you fancy, because they are a hot trend right now. Many red carpet stars ditched the traditional necklace and earrings for a subtle set of rings on their fingers. 
Going back to the question above, ‘Is accessorising out?’ No it is not. But, there is a new meaning to it . So it is not only safe’ to go without accessories now, it is in. Of course, it does not hurt to wear that statement necklace when there is an opportunity to. After all, seeing our mothers in those statement pearl necklaces and chunky earrings is the beauty we never get enough of. advertisement