Sunday April 1 2018 “Women send me nudes” -Mubikirwa Isaac Mubikirwa was crowned as the winner of Mr Uganda 2017/2018. Mubikirwa is a clinician-turned-gym instructor. Photo by Lawrence Ogwal In Summary Last year, Isaac Mubikirwa was crowned as the winner of Mr Uganda 2017/2018. Mubikirwa, a clinician-turned-gym instructor talked to Lawrence Ogwal about body building. Advertisement By Lawrence Ogwal 
As Mr Uganda, does it mean you are the man with the biggest muscles in Uganda? It is not actually like that but for one to be crowned Mr Uganda, it depends on how you display the muscles. One can have huge muscles but again they might not know how to display them and at the end of the day, the judges will go with who displays them better. 
What did it take to be crowned Mr Uganda? I was crowned because of my patience. I started participating in 2011 but never won though I would come in third or fourth position. This took me back to the drawing board to see where I was going wrong. That is how I managed to beat the other contenders in last year’s competitions. 
So you have wanted to be Mr Uganda since 2011? Not really. My life depends on working out and since my Senior Six vacation, I have been involved with gym and keeping a healthy body until my friends told me to start taking part in Mr Uganda competitions. 
Do you eat and sleep in the gym? After school, I was not about gym because I had a job. I was working as a clinician in Bwebajja but after sometime, I quit and got a job as a gym Instructor with University of Pain, a gym formerly located in Luzira before it moved to Park Enkadde Mall. I do not only work as a gym Instructor but also as a body builder and the two are easy to handle. 
What is your typical day like as a gym instructor? I spend almost all my time in gym. When I wake up at 5am, I take a shower and then have a heavy breakfast before I hit the gym to work out as I wait for clients to come in. 
Heavy breakfast brings to mind the heavy body builder’s appetite. How many times do you eat in a day? I eat eight times a day but mostly proteins. I can eat even more than 10 times a day. I eat proteins since they help to build the body. I advise every gym person or body builder not to be ashamed of eating too much because it is good for the body. 
What does it take for a skinny person to have a body like yours? You have to make the gym your friend and besides, you need to be patient because such a body cannot be built in just a few days. You also need good training and enough rest. 
What are your dreams? I need to sell Uganda to the world by looking at the International level. I am trying to work hand in hand with the Uganda Body Building Federation to get me competition internationally. 
What have you achieved so far? Besides making friends, not a lot. As Mr Uganda and as a body builder, I have got a job as a gym instructor. Last week, I was unveiled and contracted as the new Ambassador of Rwenzori Green Tea, a product manufactured by Mukwano Commodities Limited. 
Ladies love well-built men. How many are you dating at the moment? (Laughs), I am not so much into women and besides, I do not believe in having many women at once. I prefer my relationship to be secret. 
Aren’t there women trying to date you? Of course, those are very many but I know how to deal with them. I have a polite way of telling them off. In most cases, I friendzone them although they keep on making advances on me. 
How do they make advances on you? I receive nude photos in my Facebook and WhatsApp inbox from women but 90 per cent of these are white women whom I do not know. Since I do not have time for that nonsense, I delete the photos and block the person there and then. 
What is your kind of woman ? I like someone who is God-fearing and beautiful and the way I define beauty is a secret that I will not tell other men because they will take my type of women. 
ABOUT Mubikirwa Who is Isaac Mubikirwa? Isaac Mubikirwa is Mr Uganda 2017/18. He grew up in Jinja where he attended Naranbhai Road Primary School before joining St Mary’s Namalega in Bombo for O-Level, St Mary’s College Kitende for A-Level and finally Mbale School of Clinical Medicine. advertisement