Sunday April 1 2018 Agritourism is cash cow for Kigoye Godfrey Kigoye in one of the pigsty’s. Below he checks out layers chicken. Photo by Denis Bbosa In Summary A conglomerate of three farmers set out to give a try at all farming ventures back in 2004 and after years of huffing and puffing, they have turned their seven-acre farm in Namugongo into a successful demonstration farm housing 15 enterprises. Seeds of Gold’s Denis Bbosa was at their farm this week to find out the magic behind their success and their determination to promote urban farming. Advertisement By Denis Bbosa 
Ever imagined a prospective farmer having to sleep in a dormitory at a demonstration farm for days just to tap into agribusiness knowledge? That is how far Ugandan farming has moved.Godfrey Kigoye, a co-founder at Katende-Harambe Rural-Urban Centre in Namugongo-Nsawo Village in Wakiso District says he, along with Ssemwogerere Katende and Jane Nyanzi Magoba, started humbly in 2004 with only five pigs on five acres. 
Their venture has now blossomed into a seven-acre demonstration farm that is being used by government, church and private institutions to enlighten farmers on the best farming practices.“We put emphasis on integrated sustainable agriculture system of little input. We train farmers urban farming, how to appropriately use animal feeds, water harvesting, crop husbandry, basket cookers, charcoal fridges, how t to farm on a raised bed, verandahs and in sacks plus proper banana and coffee management,” says Kigoye, an agriculture consultant. 
Poultry, rat breeding Among the most lucrative enterprises on the Katende Harambe farm are poultry and rat breeding. At the moment they have 6,000 birds (kuroilers, broilers and layers) and are one of the best egg suppliers in the area. Today, Kigoye and his partners produce crossed birds and also do synchronised/ programmed hatching at their premises. They rear albino and guinea pig rats in cages and sell each rat at Shs10,000. “The rats have a high breeding rate and can produce about 15 younger ones. The main market is at institutions that use them for study purposes,” Kigoye explains. They also have rabbits that are used for meat and study purposes. 
Other ventures With animal husbandry, they do goat rearing, pig farming, rabbits and cattle rearing, bee keeping (apiary), fish farming (cat fish and tilapia). In horticultural farming they major in growing vegetables, water melons, pineapples, strawberries, hot pepper, goose berries and bananas. There is also space on their land to accommodate cassava farming, sugarcanes and tree planting (Burgal 
veria, mituba, pine, termineria, tick and eucalyptus). 
Why mixed farming “Ugandans do not have enough land because of land fragmentation and that is why many people have 100 by 50 plots that cannot sustain banana growth, for the start,” Kigoye says.He advises urban farmers with limited space to try out box, veranda and sack gardening. “This system helps you use land without need for bush farrowing,” he says. Kigoye says the countless benefits of the interdependence between animals, plants and poultry also makes mixed farming a must have.“Farmers should cut away stupid spending on buying vegetables. How can a farmer in Buganda surely buy nakati, cabbages and sukumawiki daily yet he plants flowers?” he asks. 
Agribusiness tourism Besides money from selling their produce, Kigoye reveals they are making money from agriculture tourism. He says Katende-Harambe demonstration farm has become a tourist site for farmers and students. “Farmers and students visit us daily seeking knowledge. We charge them depending on the time they spend here,” says Kigoye. Kigoye is quick to reveal that each kindergarten child pays Shs2,000 for a guided tour. 
“Secondary students mostly those partaking in entrepreneurship pay Shs5,000 while each university student is charged Shs7,000. The working class and NGOs part with Shs10,000 while those from upcountry that need accommodation pay Shs45,000 (meals inclusive) to sleep over for night in a ‘gender sensitive’ dormitory,” he says. 
Challenges They grapple with theft that starts within their employees. A few years ago, their pigsty was ransacked leading to losses of more than Shs20m. Last year they made losses amounting to Shs30m in poultry due to diseases. 
“Since we mainly get money from agribusiness tourism, it is inevitable to avoid diseases that visitors may come with from their farms but we try to spray,” Kigoye adds.He calls on government to consider a change in education curriculum to incorporate agriculture as a must to every student and also advises on waving taxes on agriculture materials. 
Expansion They have bought 20 acres of land in Nakawuka-Wakiso to expand their demonstration farm and have diversified by buying land in Munyonyo to construct Fusion Auto Spa. “We teach people to diversify,” he says. 
Among the key success stories from learning at Katende-Harambe farm is Uganda Funeral Services boss Regina Mukiibi, now a successful farmer and Commissioner of Police John Kamya who has built cottages after Kigoye helped him start an 80-acre eucalyptus farm in 2006.“We have signed our first grant with government to train tertiary students in modern farming methods. This has come after dedicated years of trusted service,” he says. advertisement