It’s Easter, and a good time to stop the shady preachers Bernard Tabaire In Summary Hope. Even when our dedicated tithing serves to swell the pockets and cheeks of the preacher, the preacher’s family, and close friends, we keep going back and giving. Hope can be a deceptive yet alluring thing. People fall for it and keep hoping. By Bernard Tabaire 
In his Easter message, Kampala Archbishop Cyprian Kizito Lwanga criticised preachers who spread not the gospel of biblical truths, but rather the gospel of enrichment. According to media reports, the Archbishop, speaking as chairman of the Uganda Joint Christian Council, wants Christians to stay clear of the false prophets.As it should be.Except that in the search for answers to our mostly complicated lives, the message that seduces us most is that of hope that a quick and positive resolution is just around the corner — if only we could tithe ever more. 
Even when our dedicated tithing serves to swell the pockets and cheeks of the preacher, the preacher’s family, and close friends, we keep going back and giving. Hope can be a deceptive yet alluring thing. People fall for it and keep hoping.Finding a job? Just tithe and pray. Finding marriage? Just tithe and pray. Getting rich? Just tithe and pray. It is a simple and winning message. 
Compare that to the message that says that to get rich, you will need lots of doses of patience over several long years. That if you must start a business, you will work hard in a disciplined way to grow it stage by stage. That you should learn as much as possible about the business from those who came earlier and have taken their lessons. That you should be innovative so that even if 30 of you cook and serve luwombo in the same market, you will only stand out by consistently serving the tastiest luwombo at the right temperature at the right price. That you must have the highest levels of hygiene. That you must put back money in the business so as to expand it and possibly even diversify into other dishes. 
The discerning congregant knows that spending the better part of the day praying is not any different from daydreaming without focused action accompanying it.Of course, some preachers deliver the tough message. It just never lands, unless you are Fr Deogratius Kateregga.Which suggests that much as Uganda has freedom of worship, it would not hurt to regulate the preaching of “air” hot or cold. How can we allow someone to declare loud and clear at the pulpit that he cures HIV/Aids through prayer and actually follows through to mislead people who are unwell? 
Isn’t it a health hazard for people to line up to kiss a so-called prophet’s shoes? How can authorities permit this sort of thing? I can understand wayward interpretation of Scripture, but its re-enactment through acts that are potentially harmful to the health Ugandans ought to be punished. 
How can we look on when obvious con artists are allowed to pass themselves off as preachers? We surely should not allow shady people to prey on the fears and hopes of fellow Ugandans.Order needs to return to the business of the Gospel. As we celebrate Easter – eating, drinking, making merry — we could use the moment to chew on the state of religiosity in Uganda. It needs a clean-up, and the Uganda Joint Christian Council could play a lead role.Today happens to be April Fool’s Day as well. And the fools must not be allowed to ruin a good and grand thing.Happy Easter.