Sunday April 1 2018 Kagame in Uganda: Goodwill for regional economic integration Rwandan president Paul Kagame (L) and his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni meet at State House Entebbe on March 25, 2018. Courtesy photo In Summary Key. The combined efforts and commitment of the African leaders with Uganda and Rwandan at the forefront is strategically key in the success of regional integration. Advertisement By Victoria Nyeko 
Recently, Rwandan president Paul Kagame visited Uganda for a one-day working visit and held bilateral talks with his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni at State House Entebbe. The visit ended with President Museveni accepting an extended invitation to visit Rwanda in the near future. 
Many people were happy to see the two presidents seated comfortably together, engaged in discussions after recent rumours of a frosty relationship. Remarkably, their excellences share a pan-African ideology, military background and historic experience that helped realise each other’s presidential aspirations.Although the public was not privy to the heads of state closed-door discussions, their relaxed posture was reassuring. The visible expression of goodwill is a strong reminder of Nigerian Chinua Achebe words, “When two brothers fight, strangers reap the harvest.” 
For both presidents, the imminent harvest is the important seat at the global market table where their collective economic bargaining power can manifest. The ambitious realisation of economic bargaining power and regional integration can only be achieved through regional cooperation. Anything else that detracts Museveni and Kagame’s attention from the critical harvest can only be comparable to economic sabotage.Ironically, it was unfortunate that President Museveni was unable to attend the recent African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA) summit in Rwanda due to security risks as reported in the media. 
AfCFTA’s aim was to create free movement of people, capital, goods and services on the African continent. According to the African Union, 44 countries out of 55 members signed the AfCFTA Agreement. Nigeria was one of the countries that did not sign the agreement in Rwanda. According to Dr Hamadoun Toure, the former Secretary General, of the United Nation global telecommunications in West Africa, Nigeria’s population is the largest in Africa with the market size of 170 million people. Nigeria’s consumer power is projected at $96b by 2025, accounting for 15 per cent of overall growth in consumer spending. 
The large market size and improvements in creating a more conducive business environment in Nigeria, streamlining infrastructure bottlenecks, reducing the cost of doing business and efforts to curb corruption has contributed significantly to attracting foreign investors. 
Fascinatingly, economists believe the expanding population will continue to stimulate Africa’s household consumption. The biggest spending categories are believed to be in food, beverages, housing, consumer goods, education, and transportation services. The consumption growth in Africa is difficult to ignore with household consumption projected to grow by $645 billion to $2.1 trillion in the next seven years, making Africa the second fastest growing economy of any region after emerging Asia. The visible emergence of African markets with a little twist of fate could present the long awaited opportunity for neighbouring countries to reap a prosperous harvest. 
The combined efforts and commitment of the African leaders with Uganda and Rwandan at the forefront is strategically key in the success of regional integration, not only in the East African Community, but also in eastern and southern Africa (Comesa). The combined 20-member strong state’s economic market of 460 million avails a new kind of economic negotiating power for African presidents interested working together. The regional economic market is almost 300 million people, more than the Nigerian market. 
While ignoring an economic market size in this magnitude will be increasingly difficult for foreign investors, in the spirit of brotherhood it is more strategically rewarding to be your brother’s keeper, watching over his safety, protect his back, safeguarding that we all reap the harvest integrated as one. 
Ms Victoria Nyeko is a media commentator. nyeko.victoria@yahoo.com