Open letter to ambassador Malac Robert Mugabe Needs. Ms Malac, our generation needs to fix grave governance challenges. In no particular order, let me name a few. We need a competent and impartial election management system. We need a new culture of peaceful political transition. Advertisement By Robert Mugabe 
Dear ambassador Deborah Malac,In a special way, permit me to salute your country, the United States, for maintaining cordial bilateral, diplomatic and military relations with Uganda over the years. In spite of the various transgressions of y/our rulers, I believe the peoples on both sides of the Atlantic have benefitted from this relationship.Ms Malac, in May this year I will be turning 38. Majority of us in this generation have lived almost all our lives under the rule of Gen Yoweri Museveni, who ascended to the presidency when Ronald Reagan was your president. 
His has been a long, oppressive rule. He has committed many grievous mistakes. Let me highlight mainly three. Foremost, he has presided over a kleptocratic and incompetent regime that pays no attention to public amenities whatsoever. Uganda’s healthcare system is sick. Public education has been run down. Public transportation simply doesn’t exist. All government parastatals have been sold to private individuals, etc.Secondly, Gen Museveni’s regime deliberately ran down all State institutions, whether it is Parliament, the Judiciary, the armed forces or the Electoral Commission (EC). These institutions function only to the extent that they serve and promote his survival in power. 
In Uganda, the institutions that facilitate those functions are mainly the armed forces, Legislature, Judiciary and EC. The EC organises elections that are neither free, fair, nor credible. In the end, whether the oligarchy wins or not, it must be declared the winner. Certainly, the outcomes of these elections do not reflect the will and aspiration of the people. Then, Opposition parties contest the results in courts of law that are sometimes presided over by cadre judges whose sole mission is not dispensing justice or arbitration, but rather legitimisation of an illegitimate regime. 
Thirdly, Gen Museveni deliberately chose to perpetuate the culture of violence to acquire and retain power. In the same way, he wants power to be wrestled from him violently. He has chosen to conveniently forget Uganda’s turbulent history. He is now the biggest hurdle in the way of cultivating a new culture of peaceful transfer of power in Uganda.Ms Malac, our generation needs to fix grave governance challenges. In no particular order, let me name a few. We need a competent and impartial election management system. We need a new culture of peaceful political transition. We need a peaceful and violence-free nation. We need strong and viable political parties. We need strong and independent State institutions. We need an inclusive economic and political system, etc. 
This is not a wish list Ms Malac. These are ideals that our generation can work for and achieve. The reason is simple. We have only one country. America will never be our country. We would, thus, be happy to partner with the American people to realise these ideals. This is also in your interest because a progressive and prosperous Uganda will not be a breeding ground for terrorists whose target, among others, would have to be your embassy in Kampala. 
Sadly, your government seems to be oblivious to this reality. You continue pouring hundreds of billions of Shillings to prop up the sectarian and incompetent regime in Kampala. We used to think that US foreign policy was informed by values that were espoused, practiced and cultivated in your governance culture over a long period of time by your forbears. Thus, we believed that aid would be given to governments that have demonstrated commitment to such values. Why is this untrue in Uganda’s case? 
Ms Malac, the regime in Kampala is now embarking on organising what will clearly be a shambolic referendum to extend the tenure of the President, from five to seven years. This plebiscite is not necessary at all. During the MPs’ consultations about removal of the age limit from the Constitution, Ugandans openly rejected these machinations. We shouldn’t, therefore, waste time and resources on this anymore.We do not need more shambolic and inconsequential elections. We need a national dialogue that will revisit the foundations of our governance and construct a new political dispensation for our land. With your help, it is happening in Kenya. Why would it not happen in Uganda? advertisement