Do you want to rise from the dead? Alan Tacca In Summary Knowledge. In Eden, the state of ignorance was the guarantee of life. The pursuit of knowledge was the source of death. This dark code has haunted millions of intellectuals, including Galileo. Eden collapsed because its Chief sanctified ignorance and criminalised knowledge for a species (man) that He had made instinctively inquisitive. By Alan Tacca 
There are three stories in the Bible that are so improbable that they would be at home in a collection of fairy tales, but which many Christians take seriously as historical facts. The first relates how God shaped the world that is visible to our naked eyes, including Adam and Eve. The second story is a virgin conception in the womb from which Jesus came. 
The third story is the resurrection of Jesus and his ascension into heaven; after which we, too, will rise from the dead.If you believe those stories in a literal sense, you have a very tough head. However, I am going to suspend my disbelief and assume that the events happened more or less as recorded. 
After God had made Adam and Eve and pumped their respiratory systems into life; and after they had explored Eden, gained advanced knowledge and therefore sinned; and God had condemned them with a death sentence that would be passed on to their descendants through all the generations to come; after these things, human beings began to yearn for eternal life. For all its various pains, the state of being alive was pleasurable.With a control master stroke, God dangled before man the possibility of an exclusive eternal Utopian existence, side by side with an extremely painful eternity that was more widespread.The deal: you worshipped and obeyed God and went to Utopia after death, or you refused to worship Him and went to the harshest ‘safe house’ called Hell. 
Later on, a son was introduced into the bargain. If you worshipped aging Taata Jesus, you had to worship His offspring as well.Gabriel. Who was this angelic figure? I cannot settle until it has been doubly confirmed that this mysterious apparition was from Heaven and not a roguish messenger/operator from the priestly hierarchy of the time. But as I have indicated, I have put such scepticism aside.So, you refuse to worship God and Son at your peril. You will burn endlessly after death. 
But what is the fate awaiting those who are faithful and obedient?Lion, lamb, snake, human and hyena will peacefully roam the new Kingdom. That is, if humans will have time to roam at all. For some prophets described for us a post-Earth state where men, women and children will be forever singing praises of God.Jacques Rousseau noted that the body politic begins to die as soon as it is born, and it is born with the germ of its destruction. In Eden, the state of ignorance was the guarantee of life. The pursuit of knowledge was the source of death. This dark code has haunted millions of intellectuals, including Galileo. 
Eden collapsed because its Chief sanctified ignorance and criminalised knowledge for a species (man) that He had made instinctively inquisitive.In Heaven, permanent praise-singing is sanctified for a species that tends to question authority. Praise-singing is the germ of Heaven.As we see on earth under various forms of authoritarian and totalitarian rule, only idiots can endlessly praise a ruler or unquestioningly lick his boots for long. 
Man does not cease to be man with the advent of Heaven. He is still made in God’s image. Another cycle of human rebellion is therefore almost inevitable in Heaven. The boredom and humiliation of praise-singing will make Heaven a slave colony whose futility is intolerable.Man will be disillusioned. And God will be angry. That will be the second time. Do you still want to rise from the dead? In the Headlines