Sunday April 1 2018 Uganda want to bury painful Hong Kong memories Ball work. Rugby Cranes 7s players Ivan Magomu (with ball) and Marvin Odongo during Good Friday’s early morning session at Kyadondo. PHOTO BY E. CHICCO In Summary The team has matured both technically and in experience. Eight of the 12 in the squad were in Hong Kong last year as Joseph Aredo, Aaron Ofoyrwoth, Ivan Magomu and Desire Ayera make a bow. Advertisement By DEUS BUGEMBE 
KAMPALA. “We still have that painful memory of losing at the buzzer last year and we do not want that to happen again,” said Rugby Sevens coach Tolbert Onyango after the side were done with an early morning session on Good Friday.Uganda leave for Hong Kong today for the HSBC World Rugby Sevens Series, the same place that saw them start well last year before being eliminated at the quarters. 
The Cranes got of the blocks with a 29-0 win over Tonga before falling 24-0 to Germany. The last pool game saw them brush off Jamaica 26-5 to set up a quarterfinal clash with Papa New Guinea in which the latter prevailed 10-14 to end Uganda’s World Series dream. “We want to go a step further and if we play like we have been training, we can reach the final,” said Onyango, who has wants his side to come out firing from the pool stages. Japan, Georgia and Chile are in Pool E with Uganda and the Cranes should collect as many points as possible if they are to get seeded in the last eight. “Hopefully we dominate our pool and get seeded in the quarters,” added Onyango. 
In a separate interview earlier in the year, vice-captain Phillip Wokorach highlighted how momentous winning the qualifiers would be. “Gaining core status would completely change our lives and rugby in Uganda,” said Wokorach. Core status comes with a catalogue of surpluses that would definitely reshape Uganda financially and turn it into a brand. 
The team has matured both technically and in experience. Eight of the 12 in the squad were in Hong Kong last year as Joseph Aredo, Aaron Ofoyrwoth, Ivan Magomu and Desire Ayera make a bow. The quartet has a lot they bring to the side as Onyango has heaped praise on them.The side arrives tomorrow with four days prior to their first game.Team: Pius Ogena, Solomon Okia, Desire Ayera, Aaron Ofoyrwoth, Philip Wokorach, Michael Wokorach (captain), Lawrence Ssebuliba, Joseph Aredo, James Odongo, Adrian Kasito, Ivan Magomu, Timothy Kisiga. 
WORLD SERIES QUALIFIERS 
Pool Games Schedule - Friday, April 6 Uganda vs. Chile 4.42am