Sunday April 1 2018 Team Uganda favourites to overcome Kenya at Busiika Raising the dust. Team Uganda’s MX85 riders Malcolm Lubega (L) and Fortune Ssentamu (C) will be in the mix. PHOto BY J. BATANUDDE In Summary In MX85, Orland siblings Stav and Aviv, Fortune Ssentamu will once again lead Uganda’s charge against a quartet of Kenyans led by Dekker Kihara. Others are Lester Ndilangu and brothers’ Sam and Peter Magwa. Advertisement By FREDRICK MUSISI KIYINGI 
KAMPALA. Uganda will have the numerical advantage when they take on Kenya during the first leg of the Mountain Dew FIM Central Africa Motocross Championship at the Uganda Sports Arena in Busiika today.Team Uganda has registered a team of 65 riders from MX50 Peewee to MX Veterans but team mainstay Arthur Blick Jr has revealed that the eight riders in Peewee will not score points. 
On the other hand Kenya will field a nine-man team with two in Peewee.“The rules are clear. The young riders don’t score points,” said Blick, a 10-time national MX1 champion.“That means that only 57 riders will be eligible to score points for Team Uganda. 
“We need to take advantage of many riders because during the return leg in Nairobi later in the year, Kenya will also have a full strength team.”Uganda riders will also have an eye on the National Championship as the regional meet also doubles as the second round on the local calendar. 
Battle on cards Excitement is expected in MX50 when championship leader Gift Ssebuguzi squares off with William Blick Jr, Miguel Katende and Malcolm Omoding. Elsewhere, Multiple Industries-sponsored Isabella ‘Izzy’ Blick, who was voted by Uganda Sports Press Association as best last year, will make a bow on her new KTM bike as she takes on favourite Alon Orland in MX65. 
In MX85, Orland siblings Stav and Aviv, Fortune Ssentamu will once again lead Uganda’s charge against a quartet of Kenyans led by Dekker Kihara. Others are Lester Ndilangu and brothers’ Sam and Peter Magwa. The Kenyans will go flat out.Mountain Dew, Shell Advance, Cherish Hospital, Lato Milk and Luga properties are the sponsors. 
fmusisi@ug.nationmedia.com