Nalufenya cleared of all suspects Nalufenya Detention Centre in Jinja District. FILE PHOTO In Summary Nalufenya has attracted bad publicity for the Police force since its inception. The first group of suspects detained there on allegations of working with the rebel the Allied Democratic Front (ADF) accused police of torture. Shortly after, a group of suspects arrested in connection to the murder of former Police spokesperson, AIGP Andrew Felix Kaweesi including the Kamwenge Mayor, Geoffrey Byamukama also complained of torture. Advertisement By Agencies The Police Flying Squad Unit has transferred all suspects from Nalufenya Detention Centre in Jinja District. At least more than 20 suspects who were in custody at the facility were transferred to Kireka Special Investigations Units headquarters while others were sent back to Police stations in areas where they are believed to have committed the crimes they are being held for. The last suspects were transferred on Wednesday March 28th, 2018. Prior to the establishment of Nalufenya police facility in 2014, police used to lock up high profile suspects at Kireka Special Investigations Units headquarters. A reliable source told this reporter on condition of anonymity that the suspects were transferred from Nalufenya in small groups. "Apart from the police officers, most of whom live there and the few who work there, there is no suspect at the facility at all," the source said. The transfer of the suspects comes barely two weeks after the Inspector General of Police-IGP, Okoth Ochola sent a team of seven officer led by the Director Human Right and legal services to assess the operations of the facility. The committee came up with a report, which cleared officers at the facility of torture allegations. The committee handed over the report to the Police Policy and Advisory Committee on Wednesday for discussion. Police Spokesperson Emilian Kayima declined to comment on the alleged transfer of suspects from Nalufenya, saying; "For the moment, l will not share any information regarding Nalufenya with the media fraternity." Nalufenya has attracted bad publicity for the Police force since its inception. The first group of suspects detained there on allegations of working with the rebel the Allied Democratic Front (ADF) accused police of torture. Shortly after, a group of suspects arrested in connection to the murder of former Police spokesperson, AIGP Andrew Felix Kaweesi including the Kamwenge Mayor, Geoffrey Byamukama also complained of torture. Pictures showing Byamukama with deep wounds on the knees and ankles went viral on social media drawing public outrage. Nalufenya, which is gazzated as a police station, has existed since 1954. It started as a police post and was elevated to a police station under Kiira policing region before it was made a special operations unit center. advertisement