MP Mpuuga slams government on proposed taxes Masaka Municipality Member of Parliament, Mr Mathias Mpuuga. FILE PHOTO In Summary The bishop added that as a result, many people give up on business and end up committing crimes which clearly explains the increased crime rates in different parts of the country. Bishop Kaggwa also decried the increased crimes kidnaps, murders, corruption among others praying for the faithful to be renewed in the ray of the resurrecting Christ. Advertisement By CHRISTOPHER KISEKKA 
MASAKA. The Masaka Municipality Member of Parliament, Mr Mathias Mpuuga has slammed government on the proposed new taxes to be introduced in the next financial year. 
While addressing a congregation at Kitovu Cathedral on Easter day, Mr Mpuuga said that even if the government introduces new taxes nothing will be realized at the end. 
“Ugandans pay a lot of taxes already but much end up being spent to fulfil political agendas at the expense of the tax payers,” Mr Mpuuga noted. 
The legislator said the government always say that we don’t have enough revenue and many civil servants’ arrears have not been cleared yet a lot of taxes collected are spent on useless things like the recent age limit consultation and now on crime preventers. 
He further noted that a lot of taxes collected are stolen by corrupt officials in the government and so even if everything is taxed nothing will change for better. 
Mr Mpuuga’s remarks come on the heels of President Museveni’s letter to the ministry of finance, citing a number of avenues where the country is not taxing yet they can generate revenue for the country. 
The proposed tax avenues include social media and commercial buildings, according to the letter dated March 12. 
Several politicians, economists and independent experts have since noted that the president’s tax proposal will be ‘deepening the tax base’ as opposed to widening it. 
Bishop John Baptist Kaggwa also decried increased taxation which he said is scaring and demotivating a number of businessmen and women in Uganda. 
“When you visit the Mutukula Border you find that a lot people’s of merchandise have been confiscated by the Uganda revenue authority for failure to pay the required taxes. These poor businessmen end up in loses,” Bishop Kaggwa said. 
The bishop added that as a result, many people give up on business and end up committing crimes which clearly explains the increased crime rates in different parts of the country. 
Bishop Kaggwa also decried the increased crimes kidnaps, murders, corruption among others praying for the faithful to be renewed in the ray of the resurrecting Christ. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com