Archbishop Ntagali decries increased land grabbing, cases of kidnap In Summary Mbarara Archdiocese auxiliary Bishop Lambert Bainomugisha said Easter is not only a day for remembering the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ but also a sign of staying with God and keeping Him in hearts as Christians. Archbishop Ntagali says crime rate is on the increase and needs God's intervention. Advertisement By Felix Ainebyoona 
The Archbishop of the Church of Uganda Right Reverend Stanley Ntagali has condemned the rampant land grabbing in the country and the increased crime rate especially abduction of women for ransom.The Archbishop’s message was delivered during the Sunday morning Easter Service at the All Saints Cathedral in Kampala. 
“All that we hear around us is bad news. The rich people who have money continue to grab land from people who are helpless because they can afford to hire lawyers and meet court costs….We hear killings and abductions which are on the increase. I want to give sympathy to the families of those innocent people who have lost their lives,” he said.Meanwhile, the Chief Justice of Uganda Bart Katureebe has asked Ugandans to pray for themselves to stop committing crimes in order to live in peace and harmony. 
Justice Katureebe who was addressing Christians at Uganda martyrs parish Mbarara where he celebrated mass on Sunday said many people keep telling him that he has a very complicated position in the country which needs a lot of prayers but they forget to pray for themselves to stay in peace and stop committing crimes. 
‘’People say we are going to pray for you and I say pray for me but also pray for yourselves because you are the ones who need peace in your homes. You are the ones who must refrain from committing crimes which will bring you to the law so if you have peace, you will not come to the law. That is my message,’’ said the CJ. 
He added that when Jesus was being taken to the cross, there were women who were weeping for him and he implored them not cry for him but rather for themselves and their children. “In my understanding, he said I have done my job, I have come. I’m going to die for you but you have to fight the continuing war by following my footsteps and doing good deeds by keeping peace and that is how you are going to be saved,” he added. 
Mbarara Archdiocese auxiliary Bishop Lambert Bainomugisha said Easter is not only a day for remembering the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ but also a sign of staying with God and keeping Him in hearts as Christians.He added the resurrection of Jesus Christ is the most important day in the whole world. “Jesus Christ was born and came in this world to die for us and he came prepared to die for us so that we get peace,” he added. advertisement