IGP Ochola warns musicians, bouncers on causing chaos Inspector General of Police, Martin Okoth Ochola. FILE PHOTO In Summary Mr Ochola also urged people going to beaches and other places of entertainment to follow rules provided so that chaos and cases of violence can be avoided. Swimmers at beaches and swimming pools have been cautioned against swimming past 6pm. Managers of beaches and other places that have swimming pools have been urged to work with police to ensure security is provided for revelers. Advertisement By JOSEPH KATO 
KAMPALA. As Christians celebrate Easter today, the Inspector General of Police, Martin Okoth Ochola, has warned musicians and bouncers against causing chaos at places of entertainment, adding that police will not hesitate arresting them. Mr Ochola in his Easter message delivered by police spokesperson, Emilian Kayima, said police usually registers several cases of violence resulting from musicians and bouncers’ misconduct such as; failing to perform at the shows even if revelers have already paid their money, and bouncers who mishandle revelers. “We urge musicians to always show up whenever then are supposed to perform to avoid causing chaos. We have already held meetings with some musicians, event organisers and bouncers and we urge you to act in accordance with what we agreed upon during the meeting,” Mr Ochola said. Mr Ochola’s warning comes two months after renowned vocalist, Moses Ssekibogo aka Mowzey Radio, was killed in a bar brawl. The IGP also cautioned drivers and motorcyclists to use roads responsibly to avoid accidents that result from carelessness. Dwellers have also been warned not to leave their homes unattended to since thugs could take advantage of their absence. “Make sure you brief the people you are leaving home and also caution children not to play with electric appliances and open wires. Parents make sure you monitor your children wherever you go and be mindful of your own security,” he said. Mr Ochola also urged people going to beaches and other places of entertainment to follow rules provided so that chaos and cases of violence can be avoided. Swimmers at beaches and swimming pools have been cautioned against swimming past 6pm. Managers of beaches and other places that have swimming pools have been urged to work with police to ensure security is provided for revelers. At least three people drowned in swimming pools last Christmas in areas of Bugolobi, Kyaliwajjala and Natete. “As I wind up, I congratulate all Christians upon reaching this Easter and urge you to act responsibly, be mindful of your security and work with police to secure you are safe,” Mr Ochola said. jkato@ug.nationmedia.com