Trying out the Easter Carnival A client receives a meal at Kabira Country Club. PHOTO BY ISMAIL KEZAALA Advertisement By A. Kadumukasa Kironde II 
Carnivals are fun events and for that matter Kabira Country Club held one last year around Christmas. This time around they decided to have another event that would coincide with the Easter season. 
Last Sunday, we chose to check out the Kabira Country Club Easter Carnival. It was a well-attended affair with many vendors selling trinkets, fabrics, food as well as breakdancing exhibition, not to mention judo and face painting. 
The event was held at the former Kabira International School (compound that lies within the club) that has ample grounds for performers and revellers. Naturally, Kabira offered food, albeit limited but practical for the occasion. 
Dining I chose the chicken strips that were deep-fried and well-marinated and tasty, these were served with either masala chips, cheesy chips, garlic chips or plain chips. I like the masala chips and they were made the way I like them. Fellow trencherman has always been a sucker for a good burger and was happy with the beef burger served with cheesy chips. After getting our food, we went around and took in the activities with the former proving to be breathtaking and daring. I wonder where they get that energy and flexibility to make all those moves. 
Setting I’m told that there are going to be more carnivals in future and hopefully we can come to enjoy some live calypso music in the form of steel bands and reggae. Last but not least, the food prices were affordable, a big plus for those with a family. Parking is always assured, in plenty and safe, making the venue ideal for such an event. 
If you go… Place : Kabira Country Club, Bukoto Rating : Worth a visit Location: The garden where the school used to be located. Food: Light bites Menu : Snack menu and fry it up, chips counter Beverages: Soda, beer and wine Price range : Shs18,000 for the veg kati roll, Shs20,000 for the chicken kati roll, fried chicken strips Shs15,000 and chicken or beef burger Shs20,000 Recommended dishes: Fried chicken strips and masala Service: Good Ambience: Fun and carnival like, a great outing for family Parking: Secure and abundant NOTE. These ratings are purely the reviewer’s personal reaction to food, ambience and service with price being factored into consideration