Make Easter relevant to your life By CHRISTINE KATENDE 
Rev Fr Sylvester Alinaitwe, Former Secretary UJCC 
To business people: Easter is the time we commemorate the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ after he was prosecuted. This happened because he advocated for truth and fair treatment of all. To businesspeople, there is need to be fair, ethical and truthful. Do not look at getting big profits at the expense of ordinary Ugandans. We should remember that Jesus died for all people including the poor. It is during this time that you are called upon to be ethical and treat people fairly. 
David Bweyinda, Pastor Redeemed Church, Masajja 
To the politicians: Jesus died because masses shouted “crucify him”, it was a political word of the majority. As politicians, fight and execute the judgment of God, show empowerment in whatever you are doing. Resurrect your love for God and remember to be a sacrifice for the people as Jesus did. You need to understand that Jesus sacrificed for us and that is what you are called to do so as to be a blessing to the people. 
Teach others to learn and push on with the truth and justice. Jesus taught his disciples to take on the word of God that he had taught. Mind about others not just yourselves. 
Rev, Diana Nkesiga, vicar All Saints, Nakasero 
Corporates: On Maundy Thursday, Jesus washed his disciples’ feet and he was talking about serving one another. We took a free medical camp to Kanungu District and served 1,500 people. Not that we had a lot of money but we looked at what we could give back to the community. As Christians, we should know that Christ sacrificed his life for us. Today, we need to help those in need, give back to those who may not know what it means to be loved, valued and those who struggle to have what to eat. As a corporate, you can give a meal to the orphans or elderly. You do not need to have a lot of money to do this. 
Stephen Ssenfuma, Pastor at United Christian centre, Kikoni 
The youth: Being saved started with the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Shedding his blood washed away the norm in the Old Testament where animals where instead killed to stand in for human sin. Jesus died once and resurrected and in this, he saved the human race. 1Peter 1: 18-19 says, “For you know that it was not with perishable things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your ancestors, 19 but with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish or defect.” Fr Constantine Mbonabingi, Secretary, Uganda Joint Christian Council 
To the marrieds: Easter is the time for renewal forgiveness and being faithful. So you should remain faithful to one another. Men should avoid battering women. There are so many cases in the country of men beating women, this should stop, you instead show love to one another because that is what Jesus advocated for. 
Look for a mutual way of solving issues that arise in the family. Child negligence should also stop because some men have neglected their responsibilities. Let men who batter women be reformed during this Easter festival. Let us create peace and love. Related Stories