The biggest sacrifice I have ever made... By CHRISTINE KATENDE 
Scovia Wangwe, Nurse 
I have for the last 10 years devoted myself to restoring hope to the married women, single mothers and their adolescent children. With no single penny paid to me, I make time to listen and find an appropriate solution for the problem. Many have saved their marriages and others have been able to handle their children. 
Dorothy Namubiru, programmes coordinator I have really sacrificed a lot for different people, friends and family. But I remember giving up my place in a taxi for an expectant mother and ended up reaching work late.On another occasion, I gave a beggar Shs10,000. The biggest of them all was when I decided to change my workstation, relocating from Kampala to Mbarara where I had no relative or known friend. it is good that I am meeting new people and changing lives everyday day. 
Fauzia Nantambi, businesswoman 
Last year before my father passed on, I sacrificed every penny I had to fight for his life but he lost it. And now, I have decided to take on my neighbour’s sick child. I pay for his treatment and I have to make sure he goes to hospital for reviews. I decided to sacrifice for his better life because his mother is out of the country and no one is ready to help him. 
Richard Kasadha, painter 
I have contributed towards buying basic needs for hospitalised people, mainly cancer patients. I have a group that normally visits the hospital. We make time, go to Mulago hospital and spend time with these people, we pray with them and give them basic needs such as soap, sugar, milk and bread. This is what we are planning to do later today. I believe that the little money and time sacrificed makes a great difference in these people’s lives. 
Joseph Kalema, Business man 
About seven years ago, I came out strongly to fight for one of my colleagues when her family members wanted to chase her from her land in the village. Amid the terrible threats that I used to get, I came up with credible evidence that was used at the sub-county office to save her land and she is now the rightful owner of that land. 
Collins Muhwezi, Sports journalist 
In 2008, I bailed out my colleagues at school who were about to be expelled. I remember giving the security officer money to withdraw the case and that is how they survived the expulsion. Still in 2014, I sacrificed all the money I had to cater for a woman who was admitted in Mulago hospital, but she died after a week. I was happy to have helped when they needed help. 
George Ssuka, land surveyor 
Sometime back, I gave an old woman in our village a new life. She used to sleep in a very old and almost dilapidated house but I built her a new small but beautiful house and I offered to educate her four grandchildren. Not only that but I have helped two girls that I picked off the street to attain education, one is in Senior Six and the other in Senior Four. I am happy that they are living a happy life. Racheal Mbabazi, teacher 
Five years ago, I used my money to go visit my friend’s parent who stayed deep in a village somewhere in Budaka. Not only did I incur transport expenses but also took time to help the patient and also bought her some basic needs such as soap, salt and sugar. My friend and the parent were so happy. 
Grace Mwesigwa Lotet, Caterer. 
In 2016, I let go of a job offer to take care of my family. I wanted to be with them or be together every day. I could not leave my husband to look after the children. So, I decided to sacrifice my job for family. advertisement