Why I celebrate my Easter with needy people Volunteers wash utensils at the Mapeera Bakateyamba home in Nalukolongo, Rubaga. Advertisement By PHIONAH NASSANGA 
In 2014, my friend Joseph Kambaza took me to Mapeera Bakateyamba’s home in Nalukolongo, promise he had made to me. I had only known the place through other people and wished to be there. When this chance surfaced, I seized it right away. 
Mapeera Bakateyamba’s Home is a charity home for the elderly and disabled members of the community who are looked after by the Good Samaritan Sisters. It was founded by the late Cardinal Emmanuel Nsubuga in 1997. 
On my maiden visit, I was stunned by the warmth of the people there. A crippled young charming girl of about 10 years crawled towards me. I knelt and held her close to my chest. 
She mumbled a few words to me, perhaps to express her ecstasy about our meeting as her face beamed. I came to learn that her name is Maria. 
Many people have asked, why I spend most of my free time at this place. It is ‘home-away-from-home’ where love, happiness true friendship is bundled up in one piece. 
I set foot in each of their room, these old and disabled members of the community welcomed me with smiling eyes because some cannot talk. 
The men’s wing had a young man who signaled me by clapping. When I turned, he clapped harder and gave me an ear to ear smile as he waved. For the first time I have felt a sense of belonging . Fast forward.My first Easter celebrations with them was in 2015 and the culture has remained the same. We had Palm Sunday with, a few needy members who can support themselves to church and these that can get in to the wheel chairs each with their palm leaf. 
After mass the priest went to the rooms of those that are bedridden. During the Holy week goes a number of donations for Easter trickled in from well-wishers. My team and I sometimes helped the Sisters carry the donations to different storage rooms. 
Dividing ourselves in the three wards, my team and I helped to give out the donated items to each member of the home. The items included food stuffs such as sugar, soda, and other items such as clothes depending on what is available. By Maundy (Holy) Thursday we were certain of what each person was to wear come Easter Sunday. 
We had to crosscheck the wardrobes to ascertain that the men had kanzus and women had gomesis. We had to iron the creased ones and put them on hangers. 
From vigil On Easter vigil it was a beehive of acivities for most members of the home. My team and I with the help the nuns had to scrub the floors and hall ways as well as iron the last batch of clothes. 
At 2pm we were peeling the very fine fingers of matooke, Irish potatoes, chopped the meat, and picked some green vegetables from the backyard garden behind the women’s wing. We had to ensure we were in time for vigil prayers that started at 8pm as we waited for resurrection with our candles ready to be lit at midnight. After prayers we went home. 
On Easter Easter Sunday. We began with morning prayers at 7am. The church filled to capacity, the choir of the Good Samaritan Sisters dressed in their white habits. The drum beats and melodious hymns about resurrection filled the air. We changed into our Sunday best. We ate bread and tea for breakfast at 8.30am with a backdrop of Easter music. 
The elderly of the community who can walk and ride in their wheel chairs keep in the compound after breakfast interacting with each other Later my friends and I engaged in cooking the food we had sorted the previous day. We served lunch at midday. We had to feed those that cannot help themselves. 
Maria sat by her bed, I fed her as she also sipped on her bottle of soda.The Good Samaritan Sisters keep checking on the bedridden ones for the rest of the day. 
At day break the nuns visit each room, change diapers and clothes and monitor things like temperature and general well-being. We washed eating utensil and retired to some gospel songs waiting to serve evening tea 6pm. 
Lessons learned Despite being poor, needy and vulnerable, these people have appreciated and grown bigger hearts as far as sharing serving and receiving is concerned. They share the little food, clothes they receive with their neighbours. 
I have met wonderful people at the home and I consider the Bakateyamba, my family extended! I would like to say my motive for volunteering is by self will and I have realised that I need them more than they need me. With them love is freely given and there is less to complain about. 
The love and little contributions I share, may seem a drop in an ocean but it has been important to the lives of these people. advertisement