April Fools: What was your worst lie? By CHRISTINE KATENDE 
Obedi Kiyaga, Telecommunications engineer 
In 2006, I called my mother and told her that our house had caught fire. She came rushing from work only to find out that I had told her lies. She got very annoyed and never spoke to me for hours that day but I told her it was Fool’s Day. She just smiled. 
Marvin Ampaire, DJ 
In my Primary Five when my father sent us to our uncle. My elder brother whom I trusted so much made me drink local beer claiming that it was banana juice. I felt very bad. He later started laughing at me after he had made a fool of me. 
James Mukalazzi, Teacher 
It was on a Sunday morning (Fool’s Day) in 1999 when I told my stepmother that her sister was involved in an accident on her way from church. The woman panicked and lost some of her money in the process. She got so bitter that she even wanted to strangle me. However, I ran to my grandparents’ home that was a few kilometres away. 
George Kizito, photographer 
Someone called me saying that our salaries had been remitted and my name was on the pinned list. Because I had not been paid for a year, I borrowed money for transport and rushed to the district offices in Wakiso only to discover that it was a lie, and my name was not there. I felt very bad and I learnt never to tell lies to anyone because I know how much it hurts. 
Agnes Ssembatya, Head teacher 
Last year, my girlfriend called me in the morning and told me that she was pregnant for us. At first I got worried since I was not ready to take on the responsibility. However after about 30 minutes of reflection, I realised it was a lie. I remember her laughing at me when I called back saying that I had fallen victim of Fool’s Day. 
Patrick Kiwanjago, footballer 
About three years ago while I was at campus, I called my husband asking him to send me money for transport to take me back home. He instead copied and pasted a mobile money message and sent it to me. It showed that I had received Shs100,000. When I checked, I had zero balance. I just laughed it off and later when I called him, he told me it was Fool’s Day. 
Rebecca Freda Ichimo, social worker 
I once deceived my classmate that I was a spiritual medium and that I had received a message from his dead grandfather. Many of my peers started getting scared of me, they could not imagine me talking to the dead. It was later when some girl wanted to know what her late aunt had communicated that I revealed it was a lie. As if that was not enough, was taken to the disciplinary committee the teacher asked me why I made such a lie. 
Manuela Mulondo, Statistician 
My elder sister Sarah once lied to us that our Aunt Grace had returned from Kenya. We all rushed to the bus station to receive her only to realise that we had been fooled. I was hurt because I had high expectations and plans. Aunt always brought us some goodies on her way back. Imagine the frustration!John Paul Wekoye, Teacher 
Mildred Muhaise, news anchor 
Back in the ‘90s, somebody called my mother and told her that my grandfather had passed on. It was such shocking news. So, early morning on the following day, we went to the village only to find the old man having his breakfast. He was very well. I was so angry because I was even denied breakfast that morning since we all had to travel. Related Stories