Where are the good physicians? Advertisement By Nafha Maani Ebrahimi 
Because we abused our bodies for such a long time, because we started eating junk and consumed too much sugar, so much damage happened to our perfectly created digestive system. Added to that other factors, we are now living complications that we try to reverse. 
The above, of course, will not happen without help, hence a thriving health care business that is booming in many parts of the world. Dieticians, nutritionists and many others are emerging to help a population that is turning obese and is in dire need of assistance. 
On one hand are all the above, and on the other, hundreds, if not thousands of websites that try to lure those who do not like to make the trip to a consultant’s office, and who would rather pay less or nothing but find a good diet to improve their health. It is here that the search becomes very tricky and one can fall for false schemes that might cause more harm than benefit. 
The sale of certain shakes and pills that are done without prescription of a qualified physician, are one such example. I had a friend who decided to try tablets that help lose weight, she was advised to also seek a professional opinion, but never did. 
After a few months of trying, she lost some weight that she eventually gained back, but she also got heart palpitations that were stuck with her for a very long time. 
The health care business has also become a lucrative area for some countries, one such county is Thailand. It is amazing how some years ago, Thailand was known for its night life and shopping. 
Today, it is competing with India, a mammoth in this domain. Today, there are thousands of people from around the world who make the journey to Bangkok and undergo full medical check-ups. There are also eye care clinics and orthopaedic centres that have proven their ability to perform very complicated bone surgeries. 
A friend who used to travel to the US for treatment, has just been to Bangkok for a knee replacement surgery. In a very high standard hospital with amazing post-surgery care, he ended up paying less than $20,000, he would have paid four times more, if he had chosen to go back to the US for the same operation. 
For less complicated issues, there are mushrooming resorts and retreats that call for healing journeys, spending a week or two in a quiet environment. advertisement