We are all complicit in Gender Based violence Advertisement By Myles Mukisa 
I should say that even as I write right now, I am not sure that the rumbling noises I hear from across in my bedroom, emanating from the neighbour’s house, are those of two humans at each other or whether it has always been a violent movie playing in their living room, sounding loudly off their Dolby digital surround sound music system. My thinking is that it must have been a movie. 
It cannot have been that they were fighting, surely. For this is a happy couple by all measurements; they walk in holding hands, their shoulders buried into each other. They celebrate their anniversary with a party to which they invite all the neighbours. 
One evening, the movie kicked off with a flying saucepan smashing off the wall. And then another saucepan. And then another. And then a plate that smashed off the floor, splattering into what must have been a million pieces. 
And then a shout, and a scream and a shrilling cry. Then a swear word, followed in quick succession by yet another swear word, and then a litany of profanities released in staccato like a machine gun. 
Suddenly, all of us neighbours knew that the man of that household does not last very long in the marathon of horizontal indulgence, and yes, that his member is in some way or form, physically challenged. 
And that is when you realise you are not feeding off the creative works of the fine art of a seasoned film director but the very reality of domestic violence, just next door. 
And I sat there on my bed, wondering what to do. Could I walk over to the door and inquire whether they could use help with the reorganisation of the house that they must have been involved in, causing all that noise? Could I go and ask for some popcorn that I must have heard popping from all the way back in my bedroom? Or could I assume I have the legitimacy and authority to storm into another man’s house and ask why a grown man was trying to dodge flying saucers and breaking glasses? 
First, both of them, the victim and perpetrator, would dismiss me in very quick order. I would be accused of pocking my long smelly nose into the internal squabbles of a happy family. In keeping quiet, I was complicit in fostering this act. 
And we all are. It is not just the 49 per cent of women who agree that men should beat their wives, as Ubos reported recently. It is all of us that witness these events but prefer not to stir the waters further. 
Soon, the activity in the neighbour’s house died down. The door slammed open and quickly banged shut. Normalcy soon returned. The next time I saw the couple, four days later, they were holding hands, their shoulders buried into each other, as they walked past me on the stairs. advertisement