TO: ALL STAFF FROM: MANAGEMENT Dear Employees, It has come to our attention that members of staff are abusing toilet privileges and we, the management, would like to put an end to this behaviour. 
Firstly, effective today, all toilet paper will be withdrawn from staff toilets. Each department will be supplied with an amount of toilet paper pre-determined by the Procurement Department, and this supply will be expected to last a month. 
Employees will be expected to measure the amounts necessary before toilet visits, and to do so in a responsible and sustainable manner. 
Management is concerned by the rising cost of toilet paper and hopes that this cost-cutting measure will effectively reduce wastage. 
As we continue to apply cost-cutting measures across the company, management has also arrived at a decision to reduce time spent in the staff toilets. Effective today, April 1, 2018, self-timing release doors will be installed in the staff toilets. 
These doors will automatically open after seven minutes, which has been calculated to be the maximum amount of time needed by the average adult for all bowel movements, big and small. The following categories of employees may seek exemption from their direct managers, who will supply them with a password to delay the automatic release of the toilet doors: 
1. Workers suffering from diarrhoea, food poisoning, Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) or any disease affecting the gut and bowel movements. Note: No exemptions will be granted without a stamped letter from a company-authorised doctor.2. Female workers having their menstrual period.Note: Evidence must be provided. 
Lastly, management urges employees to ask themselves the following questions before leaving their workstations to use the toilets: Is it necessary? Can I delay it? Am I wasting time? 
Direct supervisors will be required to log in the daily number of toilet breaks taken by their direct reports. Employees with the least number of visits in their records will receive a merit mark that will translate into cash at the end of the year. As always, our motto as Management remains ‘Here for you, here to serve.’ Yours Sincerely,