The wonder that is okra Advertisement By Beatrice Nakibuuka 
Okra also known as ladies’ fingers is a conventional vegetable rich in vitamins and minerals such as vitamins A, B, C, E, and K, as well as calcium, iron, magnesium, potassium, and zinc. Most of the health benefits of okra such as boosting your immunity are due to the minerals, vitamins, and organic compounds found in it. 
Improves digestion Okra is known to improve digestion because of its fibre content, says Fausta Akech, a nutrionist at Healthy U. The fibre helps in the movement of food down the digestive tract by adding bulk to it. This would automatically make the bowel movements more regular thereby lowering the risk of gastrointestinal problems such as bloating, cramping, constipation and excess gas. 
She says, “Okra also helps prevent diarrhoea, because it adds bulk to watery stool. The fibre content helps to clear out excess cholesterol in the body and controls the rate at which sugar is absorbed into the body. This is therefore helpful in reducing blood sugar levels and hence controlling diabetes.” 
Boosts immunity The antioxidant components in okra make it helpful in fighting free radicals which are the dangerous byproducts of cellular metabolism and the high vitamin C content boosts the body’s immune system. This vitamin stimulates the immune system to create white blood cells, which combat foreign pathogens and materials in the body that can weaken the immune system. 
“Okra contains Vitamin A and other antioxidant components such as beta carotenes and lutein. With high levels of okra in your diet, you can protect your eyes against macular degeneration which is usually age related and cataracts,” Akech says. 
Lowers blood pressure Okra is a good source of both vitamins and minerals such as potassium, which is an essential aspect of human health. It acts as a vasodilator by reducing blood pressure and optimising the circulatory system. 
The potassium helps relax the blood vessels and arteries, which reduces blood pressure and lessens the strain on the heart. Radiant skin & hair Vitamin A and C found in okra helps maintain a younger looking skin. The antioxidants are also able to protect skin health, by promoting quicker healing, reducing the appearance of scars and acne, and eliminating wrinkles. Akech says, “Okra is a good moisturiser for your dry and itchy scalp. It leaves your hair feeling soft and protects your scalp from dandruff. You can use the okra gel as a hair rinse to give it a beaming radiance.” advertisement