4 UPDF die in deadly al-Shabaab attack; army kills 22 terrorists, capture enemy weapons April 1, 2018 file photo - Advertisement - 
Islamist insurgents battled for hours on Sunday with African Union troops after exploding a car bomb outside their base, Somali police, military and the militants said. Al Shabaab militants attacked the African Union (AU) peacekeepers’ base in the town Bulamarer, 130 kilometres to the northwest of the capital Mogadishu, residents from the area told Reuters. 
Amisom contributing countries include: Uganda, Burundi, Djibouti, Ethiopia and Kenya. According to Reuters. the militants initially detonated two suicide car bombs that hit one AU vehicle and one Somali military vehicle, Somali army major Farah Osman, who is stationed near the African Union Mission in Somalia base said. “Then a large number of al Shabaab fighters began firing from under the trees … it was a hellish battle,” he said, adding there was an unknown number of casualties. - Advertisement - 
The phone of the spokesman for the AMISOM force based in Mogadishu was switched off on Sunday and Reuters was unable to reach any other officials from the force for comment. Abdiasis Abu Musab, a spokesman for al Shabaab said 14 of the group’s fighters and 59 AMISOM troops were killed in the incident. 
However, UPDF spokesman, denies the figure. in Facebook post the UPDF mouthpiece noted: 
‘‘UPDF under AMISOM has this morning killed 22 Alshabab terrorists that attempted to attack AMISOM Forward Operating Bases at Quoroyole, Buulo Mareer and Golwen in Lower Shabelle Region of Somalia. Eight of their vehicles that included two Vehicle Born Improvised Explosives were destroyed. The following equipment were captured from the terrorists :4 PK Rifless ,2 Rocket Propelled Guns,2 Recoiless Guns,1 Walkie Talkie and 18 Sub Machine Gun Rifles. The UPDF lost 4 gallant soldiers and 6 sustained minor injuries.Mopping up operation continues.” he said. 
Major Nur Ali told Reuters that Somali and AMISOM forces had attacked al Shabaab in rural areas near the base on Saturday night. “Then al Shabaab attacked this morning as a revenge,” he said. - Advertisement -