Saturday March 31 2018 Intrigue, division eat up NRM party Happy times. President Museveni (centre in a hat) with NRM MPs during a caucus to elect the party’s flag bearer for positions of Speaker and Deputy of Parliament at State House Entebbe May 5, 2016. PHOTO BY STEPHEN WANDERA In Summary Implosion. President Museveni and party chair in the spotlight for reportedly undermining party structures and creating parallel ones, pitting senior party officials against each other. Advertisement By IVAN OKUDA 
When President Museveni successfully pushed for an appointive and not elected party secretary general for the National Resistance Movement (NRM) party, the reason was that the party needed new energy.Mr Amama Mbabazi, who had been the party’s secretary general since its founding in 2005 and had been re-elected to the position in 2010, was accused of neglecting party work and demoralising the cadres as he kept busy with his government job. A fulltime secretary general managing the secretariat, it was argued, would help mobilise the party’s base, raise money and recruit new members.But when the 2016 election dust settled, the ruling party turned on its slumber mode default setting. The party today finds itself interlocked in palace wars of intrigue, bogged down by staff demoralised to the bone marrow and a ghost house for a secretariat.A number of party officials, who preferred to speak on condition of anonymity for fear of reprisals, gave a damning assessment of the state of the party. 
Admission When we contacted, party secretary general Kasule Lumumba said: “I cannot confirm the issues you are raising and the veracity of your sources but what is true is that NRM is a party made of human beings. We disagree here and there but those disagreements cannot stop our course. We remain a solid party under the leadership of our chairman.”Senior government and NRM party officials told Saturday Monitor that at the heart of the malaise is the top leadership of the party that has rendered it paralysed as they await the next election in 2021 or 2023, depending on what the courts will decide on the petition challenging the extension of the term of Parliament and President to seven years.The party’s top organs, the Central Executive Committee (CEC) and National Executive Council (NEC), which ordinarily should meet at least bi-monthly, have not met regularly. CEC last met in October 2017 to consider the constitutional amendment, which removed presidential age limits and extended the term of Parliament from five to seven years.Even in those meetings, our sources say, the chairman did not give his members time. He spoke briefly and walked out, delegating his vice chairman, Hajj Moses Kigongo, to preside over proceedings. Since then members of these organs only follow events about their party in the media.Only a few weeks ago, Ms Lumumba announced that the party was sacking hundreds of staff due to redundancy and financial constraints. Dr Tanga Odoi, the NRM electoral commission chairman, took exception to the announcement.Our information indicates that the party relies on the money that the national Electoral Commission provides to parties - usually around Shs10b - for NRM to pay rent, salaries and other dues. The rest of the other money comes in on as-and-when basis, our sources say, “depending on the President’s state of mind”. Such money usually comes from unidentified votes of the state. 
Parallel offices In the run up to the 2016 election, for instance, the party, whose headquarters are on Plot 10 Kyadondo Road, had different offices with rival factions situated in different suburbs of the city. Deputy Secretary General Richard Todwong, who is said not to enjoy the best of work relations with his boss Lumumba, sat in a house on Kanjokya Street in Kamwokya, while Ms Lumumba operated in an office in Kololo.In Naguru, a few metres from the police headquarters, was another office wherein sat the treasurers of the party. That office is now being closed as the party has since run out of cash. As of last week, the party was moving its belongings from the office.At Mbuya, Ms Molly Kamukama, now the principal private secretary to the President (PPS), ran a parallel office of the NRM chairman with, among others, Ms Irene Birungi and a coterie of young cadres trying to earn a living from doing public relations for the President. Mr Don Wanyama, who then was spokesman in the office of the NRM chairman, too cut his teeth in the NRM system from that office. When the election season ended, the office had outlived its usefulness and was closed as staff went unpaid. In any case, Ms Kamukama had been elevated to PPS and Mr Wanyama appointed senior presidential press secretary.The President was not done. When he swore in and took office for the current term, he appointed Ms Miriam Babalanda to head the NRM chairman’s office. She sits at an office in Kyambogo, a spitting distance away from FDC senior member Jack Sabiiti’s residence.That office has left the secretariat craning its neck like street children peeping into a car, hoping for adult sympathy for a day’s meal. The office has staff and is fully equipped with salaries paid from State House. What Ms Lumumba and Mr Todwong do, Ms Babalanda does, perhaps even better. What the secretariat does, the Kyambogo office does. Both report to the President but do not see eye to eye. At one point last year, the President facilitated that office with millions of shillings to do an evaluation of the performance of government projects. The team went to the field, assessed progress on government projects as benchmarked against the NRM manifesto and reported back to the President. 
Contradictions Cabinet, especially the Office of the Prime Minster, was left speechless but the NRM Secretariat was more bitter. The secretariat had earlier asked the President for funds to do exactly the same job. He turned them down. On hearing of the Babalanda efforts, members of the secretariat raised the matter with the party chairman. He told them he thought the team had a good idea and supported it.The chairman has since gone ahead to use Members of Parliament, some of whom are independent, to do what the office of the PM and NRM party structures feel entitled to do.When Mr Museveni needed to make peace in Kasese after the devastating attacks of November 2016, for instance, he co-opted a new-found blue-eyed MP from the eastern region who was later given considerable sums of money ostensibly “to reach out to Opposition MPs and leaders and neutralise the opposition”. 
Usual practice That was not strange. At the height of the anti-age limit campaign, the party sent out senior leaders to canvass support for the Bill, but the soul of the campaign was in the hands of Government Chief Whip Ruth Nankabirwa.Parliamentary commissioners such as Peter Ogwang ran the show behind the scenes as those in formal party structures looked on. The party was left in the cold and it does not seem to have recovered from the Nankabirwa overshadowing episode. “It is her turn,” sources at NRM headquarters say. The party now finds itself having to compete for the attention of the President but if anything, the leadership is staring at the signs on the wall and making retrospection about its chairman’s work methods.Some of the leaders we talked to accuse Mr Museveni of using and dumping people and causing or encouraging conflicts among his lieutenants. As the multiple factions fight one another, they maintain loyalty to him.In Teso sub-region, former Education minister Jessica Alupo, who for some time was close to Mr Mbabazi and Mr Museveni, for instance, never saw eye to eye with Musa Ecweru, the State minister for Disaster preparedness. In some instances, one would greet the other and get no reply.It was until Mr Mbabazi exited and Ms Alupo saw her political star waning as she was accused of belonging to his camp that the duo resumed talking to each other. The same was true with former Health state minister and Soroti MP Mike Mukula. In Acholi, Minister Hillary Onek remained archrivals with Ms Beti Bigombe, who has since exited the muddy political waters and retired back into an international job.Perhaps with the exception of Karamoja, NRM leaders in every region are involved in dog fights, with the only constant being the allegiance of all factions to the President.In Busoga, Speaker of Parliament Rebecca Kadaga continues to battle what appears a systematic effort to keep her in check. When Ms Lumumba was appointed Government Chief Whip, Ms Kadaga was accused of attempting to sideline her, looking at her as a tool by the President to undermine her in Busoga.Ms Percy Namuganza, whose no-holds-barred approach seems to fit the bill, has recently gone on a hysterical anti-Kadaga campaign. When Ms Kadaga sought to move to her (Namuganza’s) constituency, the President, sources say, called her and advised against it.Ms Kadaga reportedly defied the order, went to the rally ground and announced how the President attempted to stop her but reminded her audience she was number three in the party and country’s order of precedence and faulted their daughter (Ms Namuganza) for feeding the President with wrong information.So intense has the fight been that Parliament has picked interest. NRM and government officials, however, say beyond what meets the eye is a choreographed stunt cooked from State House. When contacted about these issues, Mr Ofwono Opondo, the executive director Uganda Media Centre, said this is not new and there has never been a time when NRM did not have major challenges. 
Argument Mr Opondo said: “What is true though is that the disagreements are over petty things such as who employs how many people or gets what money. They are not major disagreements on principle; the reason the recent Lumumba- Odoi rift has not even affected the secretariat. So under the leadership of President Museveni, there is still capacity to deal with those challenges.”Asked about the parallel structures, he said: “The President talks of NRM being a multi-layer organisation, and that is not the same as parallel structures. Historically, the party has membership among the peasants, elite and business class, so you cannot ignore them in the politics. That is how the multi-layer approach works; it is not parallel structures.”But within NRM, many talk about how Mr Museveni has at different points heavily relied on individuals such as Gen Kale Kayihura and Mr Mbabazi, and later turned around, discarded them as he renews his power machine. One senses a fear that these officials fear that they could suffer a similar fate soon.During a Cabinet meeting at State House Entebbe two weeks ago, the President reportedly said he had shifted from using the formal structures and was happy to return to his guerilla methods of work. All ministers looked on in awe. He stepped out and handed the chairmanship of that meeting to Prime Minister Ruhakana Rugunda.If there is anything that meeting did, a source says, it was to remove the mask on the place of formal structures. It left tongues wagging and sent ripples down to the party and those in government. And yet NRM is not South Africa’s National Congress or Zimbabwe’s Zanu-PF, which can call their leaders to order and even remove them from power. advertisement