Museveni discourages selfishness in Easter message April 1, 2018 - Advertisement - 
President Museveni and First Lady Janet Museveni went to Nshwerenkye Church of Uganda in Kiruhura for Easter prayers where he spoke to the congregation about directing energies into socio-economic projects for the good of generations to come. 
Nshwerenkye Church was built by Mrs. Janet Museveni The president reminded congregation that religion entails love of God and respect to other people. He discouraged selfishness as he commended the youth for active involvement in the Nshwerenkye Church choir. He, therefore, encouraged parents to take their children to Church and stop the habit of leaving them home when they go for worship. - Advertisement - 
Mr. Museveni advised the people of Uganda against land fragmentation practices adding that families should only share the proceeds from their consolidated pieces of land. ‘’Family units are very close to this socio-economic struggle. It is why I speak of moving from physical division of property among family members to shareholding in a unified business entity where each plays a role. This is the way of the future and the children must be taught. This extends to our daughters who in old times were disregarded from parent homes when they got married. I think marriage is good and our daughters must go and become part of their marital homes but remain with an irrevocable stake in the family of their parents.’’ He said. 
The president took time to thank the people of Nkore and the greater cattle corridor for heeding his teaching against nomadism. ‘’And now it’s time to move this on to rotational grazing and de-stocking in some cases where the animals are much more than the available land.’’ he said 
He added: am a firm believer of the need for mankind to establish dominion over the earth, and to do that, we must be prepared to constantly adopt appropriate changes while maintaining our peculiar cultural heritage. Mrs. Janet Museveni, congratulated the Christians for the celebrations marking the victory of Jesus Christ against death. 
“All the Christians have got the task of spreading the message of Jesus Christ. We must tell others about Christ’s mission on earth. We must spread the word of God to those who do not know Him,” she said. She appealed to parents desist from acts of sending their children to school without packed food for lunch. - Advertisement -