Start your day with exercise Sit-ups are the easiest exercises one can do after bed In Summary To do this exercise, place your shoulders back and down with your hands on the hips. Chest rolls involve pulling your legs towards the chest and knee rolls include rolling of knees to one side while keeping them together and ensuring both shoulders remain in contact with the bed at all times. Advertisement By Zuurah Karungi 
Robert Ddamulira, a fitness instructor, says there are basic workouts you can perform immediately after waking up that can spice your morning and keep you fit for the day. They will help you burn extra calories, reduce pain and will give you a jolly morning, especially if you wake up fatigued. 
Stretching In one way or another, we all unknowingly stretch in the morning. However, we do not get much benefit because we do not pay attention while doing it. Ddamulira, however, emphasises that stretching is essential for every workout because it straightens the muscles and prepares the body for exercise. Morning stretches will also open up your muscles, keep them strong and healthy, as well as keep joints in motion and flexible as one prepares for the day’s activities.“This can be done on the bed as you are still lying down or you can stand and stretch your body,” he adds.Goretti Betty Mbabazi, a nurse, says the neck, joints, calves, hamstrings, shoulders, lower back and thighs should be given ample attention as they are the places that command motion. She adds that side stretches are also a great option to strengthen the hand and the ribs. 
Sit-ups Robert Mugabe, a gym instructor, says sit-ups are the easiest exercises one can do after bed. These will help you cut excess fat in your stomach, increase muscle flexibility as well as reduce back pain. The morning sit-ups do not have to be vigorous but rather gentle and slow. Five to 10 times is enough for a day though more is an added advantage. 
Start your morning with jumps to help you improve your body’s mobility 
Squats This includes bending or sitting with your knees bent and your heels close to or touching your buttocks or the back of your thighs. Ddamulira notes that these help increase upper and lower body mobility as they put the whole body into action. “They also increase balance, improve on digestion and help you burn calories. Five to 10 squats can be enough as the body is just from rest,” he says. 
Stationary running/jogging This is also an off bed work out and is a cardiovascular exercise. It does not involve moving but extremely effective on the body. It increase blood circulation and opens up muscles.“It is a great option for people who want to cut weight, builds muscles, regulates the evasion of heart diseases, and cleanses the body of dirt through opening up the digestion system and sweating. It is also an easy exercise,” Mugabe says. 
Jumps Start your morning with jumps to help you improve your body’s mobility. These can be done by gently raising one leg after the other or if you can, make it more intense and make your legs move at the same time. Ddamulira notes that jumps are a great exercise to prepare your body for the day. 
Chest and upper stretch To do this exercise, place your shoulders back and down with your hands on the hips. Push your chest up and out as you take deep breaths. The upper stretch needs one to clasp both hands and extend arms out in front of you at shoulder level. Look down and slightly round your back in a gentle motion to avoid injuries. “These exercises increase the range of motion as well as reducing muscle pain due to long periods of sitting,” Mugabe says. 
Knee and hamstring stretching For the knee exercises, bring both knees to your chest and gently grasp your legs without raising your head and the hamstring. Hold one leg and pull it towards the chest, then straighten it as far as you can, taking care not to hurt yourself. “You must keep the second leg flat or slightly bent on the bed or floor,” Ddamulira advises. 
Chest/knee rolls Chest rolls involve pulling your legs towards the chest and knee rolls include rolling of knees to one side while keeping them together and ensuring both shoulders remain in contact with the bed at all times. These help in muscle strengthening. When these become a routine, you will always start your day with relaxed muscles and energy to help you work efficiently. 
zkarungi@ug.nationmedia.com