Monday April 2 2018 Isimba Dam: Leaders demand Shs900m from Chinese firm Kayunga leaders have sued the Isimba Dam contractor, China International Water & Electric Corporation over compensation for raw materials such as sand, murrum and stones. FILE PHOTO Advertisement By FRED MUZAALE 
KAYUNGA- Authorities in Kayunga District have dragged the Isimba Dam contractor, China International Water & Electric Corporation (CWE), to the Mukono High Court, demanding compensation of Shs900m in taxes. 
The authorities claim the money is part of the raw materials that the contractor is using to build the hydro power project. 
In their suit, the petitioners claim CWE, which is constructing the 183MW power dam on River Nile at Nampanyi Village in Busaana Sub-county, refused to heed to their demands to pay taxes for the river sand, murrum and stones.The construction of the dam is worth $567 million (about Shs2.1trillion). 
“At a meeting at Kayunga District headquarters the minister of Water and Environment, Mr Sam Cheptoris, said CWE was paid all the monies for the purchase of the raw materials and it is further illegal for them to access the raw materials without paying for them,” the law suit reads in part 
The law suit further reads: “The minister directed that in accordance with the Local Government Act, the CAO and Kayunga District chairperson, should follow up payment for loyalties for the sand, stones and murrum and inform the minister accordingly”.Construction of the dam is scheduled to end later this year, according to the CWE head of human resource and external coordination, Mr Peng Chuang. 
The Kayunga District chairperson, Mr Tom Sserwanga, said court had advised both parties to go for mediation (possible out of court settlement) but explained that the mediation has hit a snag. 
Mr Gerald Oundo, the Mukono High Court mediator, had been assigned to mediate between the two parties.“This is not a new tax. We charge Shs10,000 for every truck of sand taken and CWE is not exceptional,” Mr Sserwanga said adding: “We need these taxes to be able to offer services to our people”. 
According to the suit, CWE has been using the raw materials for more than four years without paying taxes. 
No law However, when contacted, Mr Chuang said as a company, they have no problem paying the money to the district but he said there is no law that demands that they should remit taxes. 
“They [Kayunga District ] have not provided us with a legal document to support their claim, which means they are just asking for money for the sake of it,” he said. 
“We (CWE) signed an agreement with the Ministry of Energy so there is no way a third party (Kayunga District) can come in to demand such taxes,” Mr Peng explained. 
He said the current court battle would not affect construction works of the dam. However, Mr Sserwanga, explained that the district had passed a by-law that empowers them to collect such taxes. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com