The poor should not join politics, says NRM vice chairman Mr Moses Kigongo Advertisement By Stephen Otage 
Kampala- The NRM national vice chairman, Mr Moses Kigongo, has said poor people have no place in politics because if elected to office, they will end up poorer. 
While unveiling his 100-acre leisure resort to the public in Maya-Masaka Road on Saturday, Mr Kigongo said many people who have joined politics hoping to make money, have end up poorer because politics is a service for rich people who are no longer there to look for money. 
“There is no money in politics. You must only join politics when you have saved enough money so that you are there to serve the people but not to collect money from them. That is why many politicians after leaving politics, end up very poor,” he said. 
Asked how he amassed his wealth and remained a politician, he said he has many businesses which support each other such as his farms which provide food for his hotels and restaurants. 
He added that whoever wants to join politics must first save enough money and ensure that he is wealthy, otherwise all the savings will be taken by the people he is serving. 
“I have very many investments and whatever I am doing now, is to invest for my grandchildren so that even when I am dead, I would have left a legacy on which they can build on. I love meeting people from all walks of life and this is why I am investing in tourism and hotels,” he said. 
Last Saturday, the NRM historical member unveiled a lavish 100-acre nature resort park which he said, among several things, will contain a mini-game park, a shooting range and a biking area. 
It will also contain facilities for camping as well as a one-stop wedding area where couples intending to wed can go and wed in the mosque and churches he is constructing there, and later host their guests in gardens established there. 
Asked how much it cost him to acquire the entire Maya Hill where the 100 acres are situated, Mr Kigongo he said he is still summing up the money he has spent because it is a work in progress. 
sotage@ug.nationmedia.com