Hippos run over South Sudan in qualifier Mukwala does the summersault in celebration. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO Advertisement By Elvis Senono 
Kampala- In the lead up to the first leg of the 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations Qualifier first round tie against their South Sudan counterparts, Hippos captain Julius Poloto hinted at two vital aspects. 
Past results between the two teams that included two 5-1 scorelines, as well as the attitude they needed to get a positive result.Going by the events at the Startimes Stadium on Saturday, he could not have been more accurate. 
Not only was another 5-1 scoreline recorded, it was only achieved after a change in attitude yielded a second half blitz.“We thought the game would be easy. But we changed our attitude in the second half and we managed to get the goals,” captain Julius Poloto admitted afterwards. 
Left back Mustafa Kizza looked to have set the ball rolling for the Hippos, tucking in a 24th minute penalty after Steven Mukwala was fouled in the box by All Henery. 
Instead South Sudan forced an equaliser seven minutes later, when defender Mustafa Mujuzi inadvertently headed past his goalkeeper Said Keni as the first half ended 1-1. 
The tie was then taken away from the visitors in a space of three minutes midway through the second half with Allan Okello and Mukwala pivotalFirst, a delightful Okello defense splitting pass found the pacy Mukwala who finished high into the net on 65 minutes.Substitute Sadam Masereka then from finished off a good team move that again involved Okello before another substitute Hamis Tibita forced home a fourth goal from a Poloto freekick on 86 minutes. 
The latter played the latter stages of the game as a makeshift left back after Kizza was sent off for shoving an opponent.There was still time however for Okello to deliver the crowning moment, cutting in from the right before unleashing a left-footed thunderbolt that went in off the bar. 
The goal further deflated the visitors who had only 13 eligible players and substitute goalkeeper Tutu Kuwer playing upfront after the others were thrown out for being over age. 
AFCON U-20 QUALIFIERS Uganda Hippos 5-1 South Sudan 
Second leg (April 20-22)