Missing link in West Ankole Diocese-Makerere debate Makerere University In Summary Focus should instead shift from West Ankole Diocese allowing Makerere University to occupy Katungu buildings to what Makerere University is offering. Public institutions owe accountability to people as they are funded through public money. This accountability is realised through the legislature, audit institutions, etc. Advertisement By Mesharch W Katusiimeh 
I read a story, ‘Sheema demand own diocese’, (New Vision, March 27). The story says Makerere University is to start a study centre at the Mothers Union building at Katungu near Bushenyi Town. 
This is a matter that raised controversy as it was widely debated on social media with strong views from not only the laity of West Ankole Diocese, but also the academia from western Uganda. That the matter was widely debated is a good thing that shows public interest in the matter. 
Let me first summarise the arguments for and against Makerere University starting a study centre at the Mothers Union building: Some of the merits pointed out are generating income for the diocese because Makerere University is able to pay the best rates; starting teacher training programmes that the region badly needs; Makerere University income will help the diocese to financially support Ankole Western University; Makerere University will help Jubilee Sacco, other financial institutions and as well as businesses to grow to greater heights. Another advantage is that universities compete and competition will help Ankole Western University grow. 
The demerits are that Makerere University will affect the development of Ankole Western University, the timing as this would distract the marketing strategies of AWU because the coming of another university will confuse residents, escalate disunity in the diocese, etc.Personally, I welcome Makerere University. Just like most of us, I was educated at Makerere University up to Masters level. I also secured my PhD scholarship through the university to study at Wageningen University in the Netherlands. Before my appointment as AWU vice chancellor, I served at a senior level at Makerere University Business School. 
My concern, however, is why Makerere University is interested in setting up diploma and degree teacher training programmes at Katungu when AWU and other universities are already offering the same programmes. Universities do not compete, but collaborate and AWU is already collaborating with Makerere and other universities. 
Focus should instead shift from West Ankole Diocese allowing Makerere University to occupy Katungu buildings to what Makerere University is offering. Public institutions owe accountability to people as they are funded through public money. This accountability is realised through the legislature, audit institutions, etc. 
Dr Mesharch W Katusiimeh,