Kampala expansion debate brings latent urban challenges in Uganda Sam Stewart Mutabazi In Summary The challenge. Kampala remains the largest commercial centre with the entire country almost exclusively picking goods right from the middle of the city. At the same time, it is the administrative capital with virtually all government agencies, including a humongous Parliament, located in or near the CBD. Government is, therefore, trying to look for quick fixes to solve a problem that requires long-term planning. Advertisement By Sam Stewart Mutabazi 
There has been public discussions about the proposal by government to expand the boundaries of Kampala City to incorporate the surrounding towns of Mukono and Wakiso. This is in accordance with the Greater Kampala Metropolitan Plan and the Transport Master Plan for the Greater Kampala. A Metropolitan is a supersised urban area composed of more than one city or town and, therefore, several jurisdictional boundaries. 
Metropolitan governance is a serious challenge world over. Each urban area contests to keep its autonomy. There is also the challenge of resource sharing by urban areas comprising the metropolitan. Small urban areas, though easy to manage, have challenges when it comes to population pressure. When population growth rate in the city exceeds the infrastructure and resources the city generates, the metropolis starts degenerating in terms of service delivery. 
Large metropolis are problematic to coordinate and manage. The advantage of metropolitan cities is availability of adequate space and area which allows plasticity of residents without congesting in a small area. Kampala is a small city yet it has a problem of population density. The Central Business District (CBD) is one of the most congested places of an urban area. Estimates by the World Bank indicate that the city receives up to 4.5 million people every day, most of them coming from bordering towns and districts. 
Kampala remains the largest commercial centre with the entire country almost exclusively picking goods right from the middle of the city. At the same time, it is the administrative capital with virtually all government agencies, including a humongous Parliament, located in or near the CBD. Government is, therefore, trying to look for quick fixes to solve a problem that requires long-term planning. 
The good practice is to come up with a plan on how Kampala will become a metropolitan area working closely with surrounding towns. There is need for constructive dialogue amongst key stakeholders. This discussion should thereafter be followed by a legal framework that is acceptable to all parties. Urban areas around Kampala will need to appreciate that it is, to a great extent, in their interest to embrace a metropolitan arrangement. 
Kampala urban expansion is growing at an abnormal rate yet the surrounding areas are not ready to receive the arriving population. This has led to a sprawl that can only worsen in the few coming years. As the metropolitan area continues to expand, there is need for greater coordination and designing approaches that will make the vast urban area livable, competitive and orderly. 
National Planning Authority (NPA) recently drafted a plan for Kampala City that will guide its growth until the year 2040. Unfortunately, it does not address the fundamental challenges about whether the city will continue to be a multi-functional municipal, which serves both as a commercial, residential and administrative urban centre. 
Government will have to make the hard decision of which type of city Kampala should be. A combination of all the three functions above can only lead to a congested and topsy-turvy city. 
As a country, we have, for instance, concentrated all our efforts on Kampala and in the process, we have disregarded other urban areas. Mind you, the challenge that Kampala is facing today is likely to be replicated in other towns in the not so distant future. 
Government had years ago come up with a plan to develop regional cities of Mbarara, Gulu, Mbale, Fort Portal and Arua. This was a very good strategy. It needs to be revived and implemented all through. We urgently need the new cities to relieve Kampala of the current pressure as the only city in Uganda. We, however, need to take precaution that creating cities does not stop at pronouncements and declarations. 
Government specifically has a lot of work to do in shaping the kind of cities that will be productive. Cities cannot grow on their own lest they grow without order. It is the responsibility of government and no one else to ensure that our cities and towns grow in an orderly fashion. Abdication of this role is not only a big mistake, it is also letting down the millions of people that migrate from rural areas on a daily basis, in search of possible opportunities that urban areas are supposed to offer. 
Additionally, government needs to note that our national urban policy lacks the focus and clarity to evidently define where the country is heading in the next few years in terms of urbanisation. This too needs to be refined in view of the prevailing conditions. The Kampala Metropolitan saga is a manifestation of the urban management and governance system failure, which needs to be addressed in a wholesome manner. 
Mr Mutabazi is the executive director of Uganda Road Sector Support Initiative (URSSI). advertisement