Monday April 2 2018 Australia-bound athletes disarmed of excuses For a change, government, through the National Council of Sports (NCS), also announced the daily allowances that are placed at $100 (about Shs360, 000). FILE PHOTO In Summary The issue: Sports preparations Our view: There is unseen calm and serenity around the team’s preparations. This underscores the value of timely preparations that should become a norm before we demand success. Advertisement 
The routine Ugandan tale will have a lot of last minute preparations for any occasion. There is a mad rush to get everything in order for even the simplest or smallest event. These habits are often manifested in sports. Teams of sportsmen and women are never ready yet the calendars for these events are known years in advance. 
Preparation is never a strength of either the competitors, their federations or their primary funder, government. At the last minute, sports administrators get involved in late dash to find funds to facilitate teams. 
This year’s Commonwealth Games, starting this week in Gold Coast Australia, have been different. The media has not had an avalanche of stories of ill-preparation. The small spot of bother has come in boxing circles where two people, Moses Muhangi and Fred Gimugu, claim to be the rightful head of the federation. 
Financially, there is hardly any qualms. Back in January, President Museveni hosted the national netball and football teams at his country home in Rwakitura. At that meeting, the Finance ministry was ordered to provide a supplementary budget for all the federations that had events running within the 2017/18 financial year. 
Consequently, preparations for the Commonwealth Games fetched Shs3.2b for the Ugandan contingent to Australia. It comprises boxers, badminton players, cyclists, swimmers, squash, rugby and netball. Other disciplines are shooting, table tennis and weight lifting. 
The first batch that had athletes and boxers, left last Saturday. The team of 69 will continue to travel until the last batch leaves on April 7. They travel as per their competition schedule. No one is complaining about the availability of air tickets or training allowances. Each athlete was entitled to Shs2m training allowance. 
For a change, government, through the National Council of Sports (NCS), also announced the daily allowances that are placed at $100 (about Shs360, 000). This will guarantee each athlete about Shs5m for the period they will be away. 
It is comparatively little given that about Shs2m is given to national football team players on national duty. However, it’s a significant increase from the $72 (Shs261,000) athletes have been earning for representing the country at the Commonwealth and Olympic Games. 
The total budget for the team to Gold Coast is estimated at Shs6b, with the other part financed by the Commonwealth Games Federation in kind towards accommodation and air tickets to the athletes. 
There is unseen calm and serenity around the team’s preparations. This underscores the value of timely preparations that should become a norm before we demand success. 
Our commitment to you • To be accurate and fair in all we do.• To be respectful to all in our pursuit of the truth.• To refuse to accept any compensation beyond that provided by Monitor Publications Ltd. for what we do in our news gathering and decision-making.Further, we ask that we be informed whenever you feel that we have fallen short in our attempt to keep these commitments. editorial@ug.nationmedia.com