In Summary Rendition. Empty tins make a lot of noise which will very often make you laugh. Visit this page every Sunday to encounter Empty Tin and his warped ideas. Advertisement By Jacobs Odongo Seaman 
Before their meeting with respective members of their delegations, President Museveni took his Rwandan counterpart aside for a tête-à-tête. Paul, he said, everyone out there thinks that our relations are constipated, they are talking a lot and this meeting is of big interest. Museveni went on to regale Kagame of how far back the two countries go, a thing he said called for the need to get to understand what is straining the relations at private level before they could be joined by members of their delegation for the meeting. 
“I asked you to come over and we sort these things out. We are revolutionaries, we can only disagree on ideals but we must maintain our common goal,” Museveni said.“No, no, no, I volunteered to come because you were sulking like a baby denied biscuits and that was affecting the entire region,” Kagame shot back. 
“Well, the important thing is that you are here. That shouldn’t go to waste.”“So what happened to your finger, it’s as if you were all fine just yesterday?”“Ah, this… it’s nothing. Hours after yesterday, many things happened.” He laughed and looked at his bandaged hand, twisting it around the wrist for dexterity. 
“Get well soon, the region still needs your vision and wisdom to navigate the economic turbulence.”“But you people have kajanja.”“What do you mean?” Kagame was puzzled by this outspokenness and felt the need to take a defensive position.“You are trying to malign my government and the army abilities. I hear so-and-so should not be appointed to government or military. This must stop.” 
“But…”“How would you feel if France made the calls on who you should appoint as a minister?”“That’s cold, Mzee…”“No, no, no. I said to feel free. It is just the two of us. Let’s vent it all out here before we go out there where we shall be obliged to be politically correct,” Museveni said, beckoning at the door with his chin. “Anyone who tries to challenge the UPDF and our sovereignty will be dealt with even if it means hunting them down in the Congo. The UPDF is ready for everything.” 
“I have nothing to vent.”“I thought you would come here accusing me of many things, but you are looking humble, Paul.”“Mzee, in my country we let the elders speak more and learn from them. You don’t want to keep dodging meetings just because of differences in execution of projects like SGR, eh?” 
Museveni waved his left hand at this and smiled.“That’s past. Besides, that man Pombe, has the temper of a drunk. I wait to see how long your marriage with him will last.” “Don’t worry. If it fails, I will find another way to fix something for my people. Just stop sulking like the idler of the region.”Museveni tilted his head, cocked his ears and dilated his eyeballs.“He only plays football and launches beehives and potatoes; I believe you are not headed his way by abandoning the great cause of unifying this region.” 
“I just took a step back to assess issues.”“What did the assessment say?”“That Paul would come running here to find out what is going on with my palm.”“Well, if even ‘Nuclear Man’ has gone running to Beijing, why not Paul running to where it all started for him?”“What do you mean?” 
“North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un is in Beijing now. If even North Korean is seeking good relations, why should Paul and Mzee who were weaned on common ideals be the subject of negative talks?”“Kim in China? I said to ease up but not to lie.”“You know what I was in Luweero, no?”Museveni picked a phone and made some calls. As he spoke, his brows furrowed, removed his hat to wipe his pate.“My boys suspended the debriefing because they considered this meeting more important,” he said. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com