Monday April 2 2018 Pirates break 27-year-old league jinx to win league Buzz Pirates captain Marvin Odongo (middle) can’t wait to hold the club’s first ever league trophy. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO Advertisement By Deus Bugembe 
Kampala- Since its birth in 1991, Buzz Pirates have looked on as a bride with Hima Heathens and Betway Kobs exchanging league titles. Even Impis nicked one in 1996 but champions- elect Pirates are now the fourth winners of the title after a 48-5 win at Jinja Hippos. 
“I don’t think I have the right superlatives to describe the feeling,” Pirates captain Marvin Odongo told Daily Monitor as the celebrations kicked off. 
“It’s amazing, it’s nice, it’s everything and it means a lot. I just don’t have the words to bring out what am going through right now,” described the elated back row who sat out for most of the campaign while recovering from injury. 
For coach Bobby Musinguzi, getting a word out of him was a handful as he was yet to believe that he had achieved as a tutor what he could not as a player at the same club. 
“It’s yet to sink in, maybe it will on Tuesday at training or when I see us being handed the trophy. It’s been a long journey as I have coached some of these players since their school days,” added the former scrum half. 
To frost the cake, the league title also sees them complete a double having already won the Uganda Cup in November. 
For most of the season Pirates have been the safest bet to take the title home as they looked miles above the chasing pack with catchy rugby. 
The side built from scratch with schools rugby as a platform has matured into a championship side like club official Sam Ahamya warned a couple years ago. 
The win against Hippos takes them to 71 points in a campaign they have lost once (against Rhinos) and had a walkover awarded against them to Plascon Mongers. 
They take on Kobs on Saturday with the trophy awarding ceremony awaiting them.Elsewhere, Mongers came from behind to beat Heathens 17-25 at Kyadondo while Buffaloes needed two late tries to deny Warriors a losing bonus point at the same venue in a 31-19 game. Kobs overcame Impis 9-26 as Rams could not match Rhinos at Legends. 
RUGBY PREMIERSHIP