Mbabazi, Rugunda lead Martyrs Day preparations Mr Amama Mbabazi and Dr Ruhakana Rugunda In Summary 
The Province of the Church of Uganda asked the dioceses that form the greater Kigezi sub-region to lead the preparations for this year’s Martyrs Day celebrations on the Anglican side. 
The committee members have also earmarked Shs525 million to fund the activities. Advertisement By Monitor Correspondent 
Kampala. Prime Minister Dr Ruhakana Rugunda and his predecessor Amama Mbabazi are leading preparations for this year’s Martyrs Day celebrations at the Anglican Shrine in Namugongo.The revelation was made by Archbishop of the Church of Uganda Henry Stanley Ntagali in his Easter message delivered on Saturday. Archbishop Ntagali said Dr Rugunda and Mr Mbabazi are chairperson and vice chairperson respectively of the organising committee tasked to ensure that this year’s celebrations are a success. Background The Province of the Church of Uganda asked the dioceses that form the greater Kigezi sub-region to lead the preparations for this year’s Martyrs Day celebrations on the Anglican side.Subsequently, the bishops of Kigezi, Muhabura, Kinkiizi and North Kigezi dioceses asked the duo to lead the drive. It has been established that since February, Dr Rugunda and Mr Mbabazi have been chairing meetings involving prominent Banyakigezi residents in Kampala, at All Saints Cathedral Nakasero, to map out a strategy for ensuring successful celebrations. According to sources, members of the committee include Parliamentarians and other political leaders from Kigezi, businessmen, and academicians among others. The drive From the meetings conducted, the committee members have outlined activities to be undertaken to create awareness ahead of the celebrations and they include a health camp at Namugongo, during which there will be various cancer screening, medical tests, immunisation and a blood donation drive. 
Other activities The team has also organised various conferences with relevant topics for different catergories of the public. A legacy project at Namugongo Anglican Shrine has also been planned. The committee members have also earmarked Shs525 million to fund the activities. According to committee members, the main objective of the drive is to mobilise the public to attend the celebrations at the Anglican Shrine, which has previously registered fewer numbers compared to their Catholic counterparts. The organisers also say that as part of the mobilisation drive a special church service scheduled for April 22 at All Saints Cathedral Nakasero. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com