Home / AFRICA / Nelson Mandela’s ex-wife Winnie Mandela dies at 81 Nelson Mandela’s ex-wife Winnie Mandela dies at 81   AFRICA , News Leave a comment 95 Views Winnie Madikizela-Mandela 
Johannesburg, South Africa | AFP | Winnie Mandela, the former wife of South African anti-apartheid icon Nelson Mandela, died on Monday aged 81, triggering an outpouring of tributes to one of the country’s defining and most divisive figures. 
She died in a Johannesburg hospital, her family said in a statement, adding that she had “fought valiantly against the Apartheid state” and that she was known “far and wide as the Mother of the Nation”. 
Winnie Mandela, who was married to Nelson Mandela for 38 years, played a high-profile role in the struggle to end white-minority rule, but her place in history was stained by controversy and accusations of violence. 
Leading the tributes, anti-apartheid campaigner and Nobel laureate Desmond Tutu described her as “a defining symbol” of the battle against oppression. 
“She refused to be bowed by the imprisonment of her husband, the perpetual harassment of her family by security forces, detentions, bannings and banishment,” Tutu said. 
“Her courageous defiance was deeply inspirational to me, and to generations of activists.” 
The statement from her family said that she passed away at the Netcare Milpark hospital in Johannesburg. 
“She died after a long illness, for which she had been in and out of hospital since the start of the year. She succumbed peacefully in the early hours of Monday afternoon surrounded by her family and loved ones,” it added. 
In the ruling African National Congress (ANC), head of policy Jeff Radebe described her as “an icon of the revolutionary struggle.” 
– Lives apart – 
Most of Winnie’s marriage to Nelson was spent apart, with Nelson imprisoned for 27 years, leaving her to raise their two daughters alone and to keep alive his political dream under the repressive white-minority regime. 
But her reputation came under damaging scrutiny in the twilight years of apartheid rule. 
In 1986, she was widely linked to “necklacing”, when suspected traitors were burnt alive by a petrol-soaked car tyre being put over their head and set alight. 
In 1990 the world watched when Nelson Mandela finally walked out of prison — hand in hand with Winnie. 
The following year, she was convicted of kidnapping and assault over the killing of Stompie Moeketsi, a 14-year-old boy. 
In 1992, the Mandelas separated, and then divorced in 1996, after a legal wrangle that revealed she had had an affair with a young bodyguard. Share on: