Poor people should not join politics – NRM vice president Moses Kigongo   
The National Resistance Movement (NRM) national vice chairman, Haji Moses Kigongo, has said that poor people have no place in politics of this country because if elected to office, they will end up poorer. “There is no money in politics. You must only join politics when you have saved enough money so that you are there to serve the people but not to collect money from them. That is why many politicians after leaving politics, end up very poor,” he said. 
Kigongo made the revelation while unveiling his lavish leisure resort in Maya, off Masaka Road on Saturday. The leisure resort sits on 100 acres will among several things, contain a mini-game park, a shooting range and a biking area. Kigongo said many people who have joined politics hoping to make money, have end up poorer because politics is a service for rich people who are no longer there to look for money. - Advertisement - 
Kigongo says that whoever wants to join politics must first save enough money and ensure that he is wealthy, otherwise all the savings will be taken by the people he is serving. A 2015 on Commercialization of Politics in Uganda study by the Alliance for Election Campaign Finance Monitoring revealed that on average, a Member of Parliament spends over 4 million Shillings on each visit to the constituency on communal services that should be the responsibility of government. 
While addressing members of the NRM caucus at State House Entebbe February last year, president Museveni informed the legislators that politicians have polluted the electoral process with voter bribery, lies and money. 
He noted that this state of affairs is now devaluing the electoral process and decreasing public trust in the leaders that are elected. He however warned that he is not going to tolerate these actions because the right to free and fair elections is one of the major pillars upon which the NRM launched its liberation struggle. - Advertisement -