Tuesday April 3 2018 Wazalendo, Wananchi inflict Easter pain on KHC Each time Kenyan teams come to Uganda, they are certain of returning east with any hockey trophies on show. Courtesy photo In Summary Wazalendo beat fellow countrymen Green Sharks 3-1 in the other semi. KHC did not learn from the Pool loss and played right into Wazalendo’s arms by upping the tempo from the word go. Earlier, KHC’s ladies side Swans, had also lost 2-0 to defending champions Wananchi in the ladies’ finals after the two sides emerged top two in the ladies’ round robin. Advertisement 
Boys: St. Mary’s College, KisubiGirls: King’s College Budoo 
Kampala. Each time Kenyan teams come to Uganda, they are certain of returning east with any hockey trophies on show. 
KHC Stallions tried standing in the way of that norm and the result was a 4-0 crucifixion (on the day Jesus rose from the dead) at the hands of Wazalendo Greens in the men’s final of the three-day Easter Cup that climaxed Sunday in Lugogo. 
The two sides had earlier met in a low intensity Pool A Game on Friday that the Kenyans won 1-2. KHC scored first through Habib Sewava when the tempo was low but when a decision to up the ante turned suicidal as the Kenyans recovered for a win. 
KHC went on to top the group with nine points as Wazalendo finished with seven after a 2-1 loss to Ugandan minnows Rockets on Saturday. 
In the semis, KHC beat United States International University (USIU) – Kenya, 5-4 on penalties after a 0-0 draw in a rain-filled regulation time. USIU must have felt, and rightly so, that they confronted a different KHC than the one they beat 0-7 en route to claiming the inaugural Hope for Sport Hockey Academy Tournament in late February. 
Wazalendo beat fellow countrymen Green Sharks 3-1 in the other semi. KHC did not learn from the Pool loss and played right into Wazalendo’s arms by upping the tempo from the word go. 
Earlier, KHC’s ladies side Swans, had also lost 2-0 to defending champions Wananchi in the ladies’ finals after the two sides emerged top two in the ladies’ round robin. 
mmuziransa@ug.nationmedia.com