Young women to benefit from Shs367m fund The programme seeks to improve entreprenuership among women. FILE PHOTO Advertisement By Dorothy Nakaweesi 
Kampala- Young women in five countries, Uganda inclusive, will benefit from a $1.3m (Shs4.7b) fund earmarked to create employment for youth through apprenticeship. 
The Citi Foundation-funded programme will be implemented through TechnoServe, a business solutions centre that helps to grow strong markets that create opportunities for enterprising people. 
The programme, dubbed ‘Girls apprentice in Uganda’ is part of Citi’s pathway to progress, a global initiative to prepare young people with tools and opportunities needed to thrive in today’s economy. 
Speaking at the launch of the programme in Kampala last week, the Citi country manager, Ms Sarah Arapta said: “We are working to address youth unemployment by providing girls with three to five months apprenticeships.” 
According to research, she said, mentorship and networking plays a significant role in nurturing young people to be successful in business. 
In Uganda, the programme is expected to benefit about 60 vulnerable young women aged between 18 and 24 years, especially those living in low income urban areas. 
A total of $100,000 (Shs367m) will be spent. The TechnoServe country manager Ms Meralyn Mungereza, said young women will mainly be trained in business skills such as baking, tailoring, hairdressing and crafts production. 
“Participants will also receive training designed to build confidence and soft skills,” she said. 
Beneficiaries Their story: According to one of the beneficiary of the previous skills training, Ms Emily Ahebwa, now a student at Makerere University Business School, the programme introduced to a new world of making that she currently sells to contributes to her tuition and other basic needs.” Beyond Ahebwa’s cookie business, the programme also has uplifted Ms Sauya Nampewo from selling chapatti on the road side to baking cakes, a business that employs three other people. 
dnakaweesi@ug.nationmedia.com