Vizurii Dance show set for 13th April at National Theatre March 19, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Uganda’s top Dance organization Batalo East presents Vizurii Dance Crew in a Dance Theatre production Tonsindika (Don’t Push Me) on the 13th April 2018 at the National Kampala 
In a would be political theatre Dance the performance shows a political society where the position of power is crucial and negotiated in a non-democratic discipline as Choreography Faizal Mostrixx and Vizurii Dance Crew. - Advertisement - 
‘Most people want creativity in their dancing. After all, dancing is art. True art must be inspirational and for that it must be creative’. Faizal Mostrixx 
With Dancing and its undeniable benefits for Vizurii is how comprehensive is its potential for transformation of the society, mind and body. 
Walugembe Isaac alias Milky of Vizurii dance crew explains the benefits of dancing one obvious benefit are physical improvement. ‘One way of making sure we keep a healthy mind for as long as our future allows is to perform activity which signals the brain to create new pathways. Dancing and the creativity it demands has here proven to be our greatest alliance.’ Walugembe explained that even watching someone dance can assure you of ahealthy Mind and body. 
Vizurii Dance Crew is a professional urban dance group based in Kampala that started in 2011 and consists of members Breakdance Project Uganda (BPU), where they met while dancing and teaching with the organization that uses breakdance and other elements of hip hop for positive social change. 
Vizurii have professional knowledge of urban dance styles like Hip-Hop, House and Afro-House, New style, Popping, Contemporary, Break dance, Krump and Ugandan traditional dance performing with different African and contemporary dance companies, both in Uganda and abroad. They seek to use this experience to enhance their specialty, which is breakdance and hip-hop. 
Vizurii Dance Crew have previously they have been participating in dance competitions in East African countries, which includes Uganda, Rwanda and Kenya, in competitions such Sakata Mashariki and managed to win the Dance Heaven championships Season 4, Batalo Dance Fest 2013 and 2017 5 on 5 All styles crew battles. 
Members of Vizurii Dance Crew. 
1. Kiryowa Fahadhi aka Skychief 2. Egesa Erick aka Fullmoon 3. Kawera Enoch Ssekandi aka EnochEffects 4. Naganzwa Erick aka Erick Sama 5. Hamza Pirimo 6. Bogere Ronald aka Ronnieval 7. Walugembe Isaac aka Milky - Advertisement -