Tuesday April 3 2018 Three killed on Easter Monday in Mityana Detectives visited the scene, recovered the body of the deceased and investigations aimed at apprehending the suspect are underway. In Summary Sunday Kiberu, 32, a casual labourer in Kimuli village, Manyi subcounty was found dead with multiple injuries on his body. Veririan Bwambizo, 62, a resident of Mawundwe village in Malagala Sub-County was also killed on Easter Monday. Advertisement By FRANCIS MUGERWA 
Three people were killed by unknown assailants on Easter Monday in Mityana District. 
Sunday Kiberu, 32, a casual labourer in Kimuli village, Manyi subcounty was found dead with multiple injuries on his body. 
According to Police, it is alleged that at about 5.30pm, the deceased had a misunderstanding with his fellow resident. 
“The two allegedly fought at Kimuli playground which left Kiberu dead,” the Wamala Regional Police spokesperson Mr Nobert Ochom said on Tuesday. 
“Detectives visited the scene, recovered the body of the deceased and investigations aimed at apprehending the suspect are underway.” 
Police said the suspect has been identified and will be charged with murder upon being arrest.Veririan Bwambizo, 62, a resident of Mawundwe village in Malagala Sub-County was also killed on Easter Monday. 
The deceased who was a casual labourer, was found dead lying in a pool of blood with deep cuts on his body. 
Bwambizo’s body was found in the house of his friend only identified as Ambrose.“It is alleged that the two were seen together in the morning hours eating jackfruit with no signs of a misunderstanding,” Mr Ochom said. 
Preliminary investigations have revealed that Ambrose was a drug addict.“After allegedly killing his friend, he (Ambrose) prepared a grave to bury the deceased, but he abandoned the plan and tried to commit suicide by drinking a poisonous substance,” Mr Ochom noted. 
Ambrose was rushed to Mityana hospital for treatment but he died shortly after being admitted.A shirt stained with blood and a panga were recovered by police detectives from the scene. 
By press time, all the three bodies were still at Mityana hospital pending postmortem. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com