Blaise Kamugisha, Crime Preventers boss finally meets Museveni March 19, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Blaise Kamugisha, the National Crime Preventers Forum Coordinator recently meet President Museveni at his home in Rwakitura, Kiruhura. Mr. Kamugisha later shared photo standing beside Museveni in the presidential jet, looking jolly. 
The details of their meeting remain scanty. The meeting comes amidst reports that the Crime Preventers which numbers over one million could be disbanded following the sacking of their patron Gen. Kale Kayihura. Following Kayihura’s exit, when asked what would happen to crime preventers since they are not recognized under the police force, Emilian Kayima, the police spokesman, who sounded unsure, said the current police bosses – IGP Okoth Ochola and his deputy, Brig. Sabiiti Muzeyi would call the shots. - Advertisement - 
“We have not dissolved the crime preventers and no one has issued any directive disbanding or banning their operation with police. But what I can say is that the new IGP and his deputy shall sit and make a decision on crime preventers’ future,” Mr Kayima said, according to Daily Monitor. Speaking to NTV recently, Kamugisha said: “Crime prevention is a presidential programme, in any case, we have crime preventers who support the President, we don’t have the capacity to dress them so if one puts on a Museveni T-shirt, it doesn’t mean the whole programme is partisan,” 
He also re-affirmed Kayihura’s 11 million as the exact number of crime preventers around the whole country. “After the handover of the old leadership to the new leadership, we shall engage with them but we have congratulated them and we are happy, these are normal changes and so there should be cause for an alarm,” he said. 
Crime preventers are volunteers meant to guard and prevent crime. They are mostly youths, underwent training in community policing courses aimed at empowering them with self-defense skills, ideological orientation, crime prevention and patriotism.