Doctors declare Bishop Luwalira attacker sane, police charge him In Summary SP Onyango said the suspect told officers that he was tired of being harassed by the evil spirits. After arrest, the suspect’s relatives told the police that he had a mental problem, but when he was examined by police medics, he was found sane. Advertisement By ANDREW BAGALA 
KAMPALA. A man armed with a stick, who was arrested as he raced towards Bishop Wilberforce Kityo Luwalira at St. Paul's Cathedral Namirembe during Easter prayers, says he had gone to seek healing from evil spirits that have been harassing him for months. Herbert Kaddu told police that his intentions were not to harm the bishop but he had taken the barkcloth and the traditional stick, which were part of his inheritance, to Bishop Luwalira for burning.Deputy Police spokesman, Superintendent of Police, Patrick Onyango, said Kaddu told detectives that he started being attacked by spirits shortly after he was named heir of his grandfather. 
Related content Man who attempted to attack Bishop Luwalila faces charges of threatening violence 
“We asked him why he forcefully gained into the church. He said he thought that if he told the security personnel that he needed help from the bishop, they wouldn’t have given him access that is why he had to beat the security to try and reach the bishop,” Mr Onyango said.After arrest, the suspect’s relatives told the police that he had a mental problem, but when he was examined by police medics, he was found sane. 
Police have since preferred two offences–threatening violence and disturbing the peace of a religious assembly–against him.SP Onyango said the suspect told officers that he was tired of being harassed by the evil spirits.Police also searched his home and found a spear, which he said was bequeathed to him by his late grandfather.“We also found his dressing mirror broken. His neighbours said they heard him hitting household appliances on the walls and ran out of the house hours before the church incident. They said for the last two weeks, he would wake up at night and shout,” he said. 
abagala@ug.nationmedia.com