  Make a return on your benefits Mr Hannington Nkayivu shows the reporter one of the banana types in his plantation in Mukono District. PHOTO BY ERONIE KAMUKAMA. In Summary He earned Shs30m that night having emerged winner of the second season but was particularly alarmed by data revealed by NSSF managing director Mr Richard Byarugaba. Besides using them to plough a farm that generates seasonal income from bananas, sugarcane, eucalyptus trees, maize, beans, sweet potatoes and cattle, the two tractors also earn him about Shs250,000 per hectare ploughed for other farmers. The transition from saving to gainful investment is even harder for retirees whose wealth is in form of income. Advertisement By Eronie Kamukama 
In the thrill of success, Mr Hannington Nkayivu made a mark at the grand finale of the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) Friends with Benefits show. In his acceptance speech, he admitted that he will tentatively put aside Shs3m to create positive change beyond the show. 
He earned Shs30m that night having emerged winner of the second season but was particularly alarmed by data revealed by NSSF managing director Mr Richard Byarugaba. “Seventy two per cent of our members actually receive their money [savings] and do not put it to good use. A lot of people that fail normally put it [money] into ventures they have never done and end up failing,” he said. 
Mr Nkayivu then, announced that he would mobilise winners from the first and second season of the show to develop a proposal on financial literacy training for NSSF beneficiaries. Saying 72 per cent is too high, Mr Nkayivu’s plan to take practical steps shone a light on an ongoing silent dilemma for people who retire given that NSSF pays out approximately Shs23b each month to 1,500 beneficiaries.“We want to develop a training module from practice to theory because sometimes theory never applies. We will generate a module from our practices so that we go to organisations where people save with NSSF and give them some education,” Mr Nkayivu says. 
Workers who save with NSSF collect their benefits at 55 years, at 50 if they retire early or when physically or mentally incapacitated to work. So how did Mr Nkayivu cultivate the culture that places him among a handful of people that make a return on their benefits? He made crucial decisions on savings and investments while in the formal working space. “When I was working, my culture was to save Shs5m or Shs10m, do not keep it long but buy land because it is an asset that appreciates,” he says. 
Like every worker, the thought of retirement always sent chills down his spine so at 50 years, he made a decision on where he would invest his benefits. Six months into retirement, the counselling psychologist took his own advice and ventured into commercial farming. With Shs130m from NSSF, he spent Shs80m on two tractors. 
Besides using them to plough a farm that generates seasonal income from bananas, sugarcane, eucalyptus trees, maize, beans, sweet potatoes and cattle, the two tractors also earn him about Shs250,000 per hectare ploughed for other farmers. Today, ensuring that he generates more income in retirement, more investment is his strategic plan. “Now that I have won the Shs30m, I am going to put the biggest chunk into finishing up the rental houses so that I get a monthly payment of Shs1.5m. I want to expand my farming by buying more land, which I will pay for when I get money because I want to produce more potatoes,” he explains.With a shift of attention to voluntary savings, Mr Nkayivu now plans to open up an account at NSSF to save money for future investments thanks to seasonal yields from farming. Experts say the startling figures mirror a double tragedy of the inability to save and to make gainful investments, especially after retirement. Mr Ramathan Ggoobi, an economist at Makerere University Business School links the statistics he deems worrisome to a high level of dependency and consumerism. 
He says in any society where people are encouraged to save and invest, they are expected to have created some wealth so that NSSF savings can enhance their capacity to grow their account balance and pay their bills through retirement. But wealth creation has been constrained for lack of ability to postpone expenditure. “This is because of wanting to live lives that are not commensurate with our incomes,” he says, adding that Uganda has one of the highest marginal propensities to consume and it has a lot to do with financial indiscipline. This, he says, shows that we are not taught enough and we cannot differentiate income and wealth. 
The transition from saving to gainful investment is even harder for retirees whose wealth is in form of income. “There you do not have much inflow, instead it is outflow. When you receive your savings and bank them and turn them into an outflow, you are likely not to live a comfortable retirement,” he says.For beneficiaries not to lose money to bad investments two years later, as research indicates, Mr Byarugaba says: “You can invest money in shares or in fixed income, but I would say if you really want to add value to the community, the best way is to put money into a project that is already working, requires additional capital and you know about.” 
INVESTMENT Ploughed the money. Six months into retirement, Mr Hannington Nkayivu, A counselling psychologist ventured into commercial farming ploughing Shs130m of his savings on two tractors, which he uses to farm bananas, sugarcane, eucalyptus trees, maize, beans, sweet potatoes and cattle. advertisement