Bishop Luwalira attacker to appear in court today Attacked. Namirembe Diocese Bishop Wilberforce Kityo Luwalira. PHOTO BY A. LUBOWA In Summary After arrest, the suspect’s relatives told the police that Mr Kaddu has a mental problem, but when he was examined by police medical team, he was found to be of sound mind. It is alleged that the attacker mistimed his jump and crashed on the altar barrier, which dispelled him to the ground, allowing time for rescue of the stranded clerics. Advertisement By EPHRAIM KASOZI 
KAMPALA. A stick-wielding man, who was arrested as he moved forward toward Bishop Wilberforce Kityo Luwalira at Namirembe Cathedral during Easter prayers, will be arraigned in court today.The police yesterday said they have preferred charges of disrupting a religious gathering against Mr Herbert Kaddu, but the case file has been sent to the Resident State Attorney for legal advice. 
“We are waiting to record statements from some people from the church,” said Mr Luke Owoyesigire, the Kampala Metropolitan police spokesperson. 
Currently in police detention, Mr Kaddu was arrested on Easter Sunday while dressed in traditional barkcloth after he jerked in the direction of the altar where Bishop Luwalira and Diocesan Dean Benon Kityo were preparing the Holy Communion, throwing the entire congregation into panic. 
Earlier on, police reported Mr Kaddu saying he had gone to seek healing from evil spirits that have been harassing him for months. 
Intention According to Mr Patrick Onyango, the deputy police spokesman, the suspect told investigating officers that his intention was not to harm the bishop but that he had taken the barkcloth and the traditional stick, which were part of his inheritance, to Bishop Luwalira for burning. 
Mr Onyango said upon interrogation on why he forcefully gained entry into the church, Mr Kaddu reportedly told police officers that he needed help from the bishop yet the security personnel would not have given him access that is why he had to beat the security to try and reach the bishop. 
After arrest, the suspect’s relatives told the police that Mr Kaddu has a mental problem, but when he was examined by police medical team, he was found to be of sound mind. 
It is alleged that the attacker mistimed his jump and crashed on the altar barrier, which dispelled him to the ground, allowing time for rescue of the stranded clerics. Mr Kaddu was apprehended by police, who were joined by the congregation, ushers and priests. He was bundled out of church and the service resumed. 
In an interview later when asked to comment on the matter, Rev Luwalira said: “We are just shocked.”“I do not have anything to say. Since that day (Easter) we have not met or seen anybody coming to us on this matter. We are running our programme as usual,” he said. 
ekasozi@ug.nationmedia.com