Are telecom companies paying the rightful tax? Advertisement By Edward Baliddawa Kafufu 
I am not yet aware of the technological mechanism that Uganda Revenue Authority (URA) will use in order to be able to collect the proposed tax on social media users. 
Of course, in order for this proposal to have life, there will be need to give it a legal basis. However, I have always argued and those colleagues who have served on the Parliamentary Committee on ICT will bear me witness on this. 
My contention is that even before we go for the taxing of social media usage, government should be collecting more taxes from the telecom companies. 
My argument has been that it is not yet comprehensible that URA to date has not actualised the deployment of an Intelligence Network (IN) that would be able to let it know precisely how much each of the telecoms earn on a daily basis in terms of voice, data, Mobile Money, Interconnections, Co-hosting, Leased lines and hire of other infrastructure like the communication towers. 
This is something we tried for more than five years to emphasise for enforcement by Uganda Communications Commission (UCC), the regulator, in vain. It is so sad that people in government, including the regulator, can collude with the private telecoms to thwart the implementation of a mechanism that would have otherwise fetched far more money in terms of taxes to government coffers. It is no longer a secret that these telecoms actually declare far much less revenue to URA than what they earn. 
As it is, URA depends on the self-declared total revenue by each telecom in order to calculate the tax due to URA.So, even before tax social media, we should work on collecting all that is actually due to us. 
For many years, I have been arguing that there is lot of money due to government in form of taxes, but which we have not collected from the telecoms due to what I would conclude to be collusion with the industry regulator and tax authorities. Let us have a quick look at the potential earnings of these telecoms: 
According to the 2016/17 Annual Communications Sector report released by the UCC, Uganda’s mobile phone subscriber base stood at 23.6 million subscribers as of June 2017. However, a report by Jumia puts the figure today at 30 million subscribers. We shall stick to the UCC statistics for now. Let us assume that each subscriber uses at least Shs1,000 in airtime for voice each day. 
What would the calculation be like? Each single day, the telecoms would earn a cool Shs23.6, making it Shs708b monthly and annually the figure works out at Shs8.496 trillion. This is Voice only. Now, can we ask URA if this is the total gross revenue that they are using to tax these telecoms? 
The story does not end here. The telecoms’ other major source of revenue is data, which includes data bundles we use in order to access our social media and the Internet for mail and Web surfing. 
The UCC report once again states that there are 13.55 million Internet subscriptions. If we just assume that each of these subscribers use only Shs500 each day on average for data, the end result is a daily revenue of Shs6.778b daily just from data. A month would yield Shs203.25b while a year would see them earn Shs.2.44 trillion. 
Adding just these two service offerings yields gross revenues of Shs10.9 trillion annually. Let us assume taxes took only 15 per cent of this sum, it would imply that the telecoms alone would contribute Shs1.6 trillion to the taxman annually. Compare this with the overall communications sector contribution of Shs523.1b for the year 2016/17. Who is fooling who? 
Now friends, the above estimated earning is from just two services - Voice and Data. But we need to get to factor in the most lucrative sector product, the Mobile Money on which the telecoms earn “madly” and which is a continuous source of envy for banks. Factor in miscellaneous services like caller tunes, ring tones, cloud services, and you shudder to imagine how much potential tax revenue isn’t declared. 
So, I hope that you can now see why being able to collect every penny that is due to us from these telecoms would be a better move of picking the “low hanging fruits” for URA than thinking of going after the social media. 
I support the President’s proposal for taxing the social media in order for government to raise enough taxes to fund the many government programmes for improved service delivery. I once again urge the Ministry of ICT in conjunction with UCC, the telecoms regulator and URA to operationalise the installation of the Intelligence Network (IN) so that we can get what accrues to us as a country. Let us do first things first. 
Mr Baliddawa is a former MP Kigulu North. edward 
baliddawa @gmail.com