Teachers protest plan to sack them over maternity leave Advertisement By DENIS OPOKA & CISSY MAKUMBI 
KITGUM- Female teachers at Pandwong Primary School in Kitgum Municipality are protesting a proposal by the school management committee chairperson to reduce the number of female teachers. 
In the meeting held early last week at the school premises, Mr Juma Jalele, the chairperson of school management committee, claimed that the school might not complete the syllabus because the majority of the female teachers are always on maternity leave.The school has 22 female teachers and 17 male ones. 
“The numbers of the female teachers should be reduced and instead we get more male teachers on board,” Mr Jalele said.The irritated female teachers accused Mr Jalele of being sexist. 
Ms Brenda Oyella, one of the teachers, said they had petitioned the office of coordinator of the Uganda National Teacher’s Union (Unatu), Kitgum branch. 
CriticismThe Kitgum municipality education officer, Ms Harriet Atim, castigated the school management committee chairperson, saying: “Child birth is a natural thing that needs to be embraced and celebrated by all and women have a right and entitlement to their maternity leave.” 
She said female teachers being many in the school is not an issue since they are always assessed, adding that they were properly recruited through the district service commission that substantiated their competence. 
“In each class, there are between two to three teachers and in case one is way there other teachers to fill the gaps,” Ms Atim added. The head teacher of Pandwong Primary School, Mr John Oyaro, assured the female teachers that the school management committee chairperson’s proposal would not be adopted. 
“Maternity leave is not a problem at all in the school since the female teachers have a right to it,” Mr Otaro said.“We do not abandoned the subjects but we always get other teachers to take over as we wait for the maternity leave time of the teacher to elapse before they resume work,” he added. 
The Unatu chairperson for Kitgum Municipality, Ms Beatrice Akoko, said every woman has a right to have children.“Child birth is a right and there is no way the female teachers can be denied maternity leave,” she said. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com