South Africa’s ADvTECH buys Kisubi, five other Schools in Uganda April 3, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Africa’s largest private education provider, JSE-listed, ADvTECH has expanded into Uganda, with new acquisitions adding new schools and campuses, boarding facilities and approximately 4,100 students to its portfolio. The acquisition is part of a stated strategy to expand elsewhere in Africa. 
ADvTECH operates high-end schools such as Crawford and Trinity House in South Africa, ADvTECH, along with rivals at home and abroad, has been expanding in Africa, where rising incomes have created a pool of customers willing to pay for private education. The expansion follows the establishment of a new partnership with Scholé Ltd, which has managed various schools throughout Sub-Saharan Africa since 2012. - Advertisement - 
The partnership is part of a strategy to acquire schools across the continent and build a network of institutions known for their academic excellence in the mid-fee segment. ADvTECH holds a majority stake, with the remaining shareholding held by the original founders of Schole International and Caerus Capital, a leading international education consultancy group. 
In Uganda, the partners will continue to manage Kisubi High School, a co-ed mid-fee boarding school in Kampala, which provides a child-centred learning experience for its more than 900 students. Scholé has managed the school since 2015. 
“We are very excited about the structures we have put in place to expand into the rest of Africa and the future opportunities inherent in these new relationships,” says Roy Douglas, ADvTECH Group Chief Executive Officer. Scholé International Founder and Chief Executive Adam Nichols says he is looking forward to great opportunities with this new chapter with ADvTECH and various schools in the region. 
“Our mission of increasing access to quality education in Africa, together with our desire to work with partners who share our ethos of academic excellence and child-led learning, make these new relationships a perfect fit,” Nichols says. 
Douglas says it was important to identify partners who know and understand the local markets, with extensive experience in operating schools throughout East Africa.“We have been diligent in our investigations to ensure we find the right business partners who can help us sustainably grow our mid-fee offering, to increase access to affordable education in the rest of Africa without compromising on quality or academic excellence,” he says. 
“As a result, we are confident that we have assembled the best team possible, with an unparalleled track record in the management of schools, improvement strategies and expansions throughout Africa.” - Advertisement -