Tuesday March 20 2018 Amuriat claims success 100 days at the helm of FDC Former FDC president Gen Mugisha Muntu (L) receives a gift from the arty president Patrick Amuriat during the latter's inauguration ceremony last year. File photo Advertisement By DERRICK WANDERA 
KAMPALA- The leader of the Opposition Forum for Democratic Change (FDC), Mr Patrick Oboi Amuria has released an account of his achievements, 100 days after assuming the leadership of the party. 
He told journalists at the party’s headquarters in Najjanankumbi on Monday that he has been able to talk to people defeated, a move he says, has restored cohesion, and revived party structures. 
Mr Amuriat says he has also engaged leaders of other opposition parties which is creating unity to take on the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM) as a united force. 
However, he said he will not bother to reach out to the ruling NRM because they are not interested.“What can you earn from a party which is just fighting against the citizens [of Uganda] for selfish goals? We shall continue to fight them,” Mr Amuriat said. 
Gen Mugisha Muntu lost the party presidency to Mr Amuriat in November 2017 polls sparking speculation that the former army commander was on the verge of quitting FDC. 
Asked why the party seems to have factions yet he promised to eliminate them within 60 days, Mr Amuriat said some people take long to heal. 
“I know you are asking about Gen Muntu. When I met with Gen Muntu he told me he was going on countrywide consultative meetings but as a party, we did not endorse those activities. If he finishes his consultations and feels like coming back, the door is still open,” he said. 
However, Gen Muntu joined the party to campaign for Mr Paul Mwiru who defeated NRM’s Nathan Nabeta in the recent Jinja East by-election. 
READ: Gen Muntu supporters warn him against forming own political party 
Mr Ibrahim Ssemujju Nganda, the FDC spokesman said all party leaders and members should be blamed for the organisation’s failure. “We are all humans. If we have failures, it shouldn’t be only Amuriat to answer. We all have to shoulder the blame. If some people have remained defiant within the party, that should be our internal problem to solve,” Mr Ssemujju said. Ms Alice Alaso, the party vice president said Mr Amuriat’s promises are not easily attainable without God’s intervention. “Reclaiming victory from President [Yoweri] Museveni can only be done with the help of God. I don’t know the parameters he has used to say all this because I know the rooted challenges. But if he has attained all this in this in a short time, then that is miraculous and phenomenal,” she said.