Museveni, Archbishop Cyprian Lwanga talk on phone over spying claims April 3, 2018 - Advertisement - 
President Museveni and the Archbishop of Kampala Archdiocese, Cyprian Kizito Lwanga, on Monday spoke over the phone and agreed on a way forward, according to State House. This follows Dr. Cyprian Kizito Lwanga Easter remarks on government and intelligence organs spying on religious leaders. On Easter, Lwanga reiterated his statement that government is recruiting priests, catechists and seminarians to spy on other religious leaders. 
“Let government have courage to call Ntagali (for protestants ), myself or Mubajje (for muslims) and tell us the information they have about ourselves but some of those you recruit have been expelled from church and are only giving you false information. They will lead to your downfall,”Lwanga, who is also the chairman of the Uganda Joint Christian Council said during prayers at Rubaga cathedral on Easter Sunday. However, according to the senior presidential press secretary, Don Wanyama,Museveni on Monday called the Catholic church leader and held discussions over the issues. - Advertisement - 
“President Museveni and the Archbishop of Kampala Cyprian Kizito Lwanga have today spoken over the phone and agreed on a way forward,”Wanyama said in a statement on Monday evening. “The matters will be discussed and resolved in the due course.” Dr Lwanga’s comments were in reference to a phone call he received from an anonymous person indicating that the state had received information linking him to a plot to overthrow the government. The caller reportedly told him that government had recruited informants within the church set up, who had given information to the president on the alleged plot. 
Dr Lwanga said a lot of misleading information is passed to the President by politicians, businessmen, civil servants, police officers, Internal Security Organization and the Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence (CMI) among others. 
He said the anonymous caller warned him to be careful, saying he might be the next Janan Luwum, the former Archbishop of Church of Uganda, who was killed by government operatives on February 16, 1977. The archbishop appealed to the informants to stop telling Mr Museveni. The Archbishop, who described the misleading information as unfortunate and terrible, told Mr Museveni that he was recruiting wrong people as informants. - Advertisement -