Banks, supermarkets, given one month to provide free toilet services to their clients April 3, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Kenya government has given banks, supermarkets, hotels and other public establishments one month to provide sanitation services free of charge to their clients. 
This follows the expiry of a 120-day notice at the end of last month directing all public establishments to have free sanitation facilities. - Advertisement - 
The director of public health in the Ministry of Health, issued the order when he closed the second conference on sanitation and hygiene in partnership with the Water Sanitation Hygiene (Wash), in Nairobi last week. 
“The ministry’s position is that provision of public sanitation facilities must be free. That is why all banks, supermarkets, parks, bus stations and other public places must have clean water and sanitation systems like washrooms,” said Dr Ombacho. 
The conference, themed ‘Accelerating access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open defecation in Kenya’, was planned to speed up implementation of the sanitation and hygiene programme in the country. 
Consequently, Ombacho has directed all 47 county governments to enforce the Public Health Act to ensure that Kenyans enjoy free sanitation services. He told a national sanitation workshop at a Nairobi hotel recently that laxity by county governments to enforce the Act in its entirety was costing the public millions of shillings to treat diseases caused by poor sanitation and hygiene. 
“Before a hotel, supermarket or bank is cleared to operate, it must meet minimum sanitation requirements. But county governments let these businesses circumvent the rules and allow the public to pay to use washrooms,” Ombacho said. 
He lauded Narok and Nakuru counties for enforcing the Act, noting that this had helped to improve hygiene and sanitation in the two regions. “In Nakuru and Narok, a bus driver can’t stop on the way and let passengers go and defecate in the open. They will be arrested and fined. This is what should be happen in all the counties,” Ombacho said. 
///The Standard