KCCA halts demolition of illegal city structures A grader demolishes stalls in the Nakivubo Park recently. FILE PHOTO In Summary When the Lord Mayor, Mr Erias Lukwago asked Mr Serunkuuma why some illegal structures in the city keep cropping up, he said that some developers defy laws and hence carry out construction works at night. Advertisement By Amos Ngwomoya 
Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) council meeting on Wednesday resolved to halt the demolition of all illegal structures in the city until a probe is conducted on which structures must be demolished. 
The resolution was reached after the Rubaga North councillor, Abubakar Kawalya challenged the manner in which operations are being conducted arguing that KCCA enforcement team does not notify the owners of the structures before demolishing them. 
Related content Collapsed building owner defied KCCA 
"The demolitions have left people homeless because KCCA doesn't give notices to them before they carry out the exercise," he said. 
Mr Kawaalya noted that before demolitions are conducted, there must be a timetable with clear guidelines about how buildings must be demolished. 
However, Mr Samuel Serunkuuma, the KCCA Acting executive director told council that the technical team will stop the demolitions for two weeks as they work with the committee on legal affairs and physical planning to come up with a full list of buildings that ought to be brought down, pending investigations of claims of illegal demolitions. 
"For now, the demolitions can stop as we look into the matter comprehensively with the responsible committees. I am sure we shall have finished this in the next two weeks so that we can have a full report on illegal structures," he said. 
When the Lord Mayor, Mr Erias Lukwago asked Mr Serunkuuma why some illegal structures in the city keep cropping up, he said that some developers defy laws and hence carry out construction works at night. He was however, quick to admit that they resolved to demolish them too. 
Meanwhile, for the old buildings which were constructed illegally, Mr Sserunkuuma said this would require a court order to have them demolished. advertisement