April 3, 2018 President Yoweri Museveni 
President Yoweri Museveni has urged the people of Ruhaama Constituency in Ntungamo district to conserve the natural environment especially the wetlands, which he said are of great economic importance to the country. 
Museveni made the call at Kahiija Primary School playground in Kabingo Parish in Nyakyera Sub-County as hundreds of area residents were celebrating Moses Kahima Mugabe’s victory as the new area MP. 
Mugabe, who is affiliated to the National Resistance Movement Organisation (NRM-O) headed by Museveni as Chairman, won the by-election after former MP William Zinkuratiire died. 
“In creation, God separated swamps from the dry uplands. To provoke God’s power is dangerous. Conserve the wetlands and you will realize that they are more economically productive,” Museveni said, emphasising the uses of swamps as sources of water for irrigation, grass for mulching, fish farming in ponds and papyrus for paper manufacturing, among others. 
The President added: “I congratulate you and thank you for supporting the NRM. To choose an active and constructive leader in politics, means promoting development. When Ruhaama County was being led by the opposition, there was no development not until Maama Janet Museveni came to represent you as an MP that you started receiving government services – electricity, tarmac roads, schools and health facilities.” 
Museveni was accompanied by the First Lady and Minister of Education and Sports, Janet Museveni, who is the Ntungamo District NRM Chairperson. 
The president urged residents to fight poverty, be patriotic, support women emancipation and avoid tribalism. He said. “Looking at the development perspective, what is the religion of poverty? What is the religion of tribalism or being unpatriotic or fighting against women emancipation?” He said, commending the residents for voting the new MP. 
On health, Museveni urged parents to guide the youth about the disadvantages of leading risky life styles that may lead to catching diseases like HIV/AIDS. He also urged parents to feed their children on nutritious food for better growth. He pledged 400 corrugated roofing iron sheets and other building materials for Kahiija Primary School. 
First Lady Janet Museveni thanked the residents in the area for their overwhelming support to the NRM, while the MP, Kahima Moses Mugabe pledged loyalty to the ruling party. 
He said so far development projects in the areas have taken place, citing the tarmacking of Mirama Hills Road. He said that plans are underway to build the Eriya Kategaya Memorial School, the construction of Maama Janet Museveni Girls’ School and the extension of electricity deeper into rural areas, among others. 
Ntungamo District Woman MP, Beatrice Rwakimari, commended government’s infrastructure programmes and services’ delivery in the area, saying they have created support for the NRM.