Bishop attacker remanded to Luzira Prison Attacked. Namirembe Diocese Bishop Wilberforce Kityo Luwalira. PHOTO BY A. LUBOWA In Summary The suspect (Kaddu) was arrested on Easter Sunday while dressed in backcloth after jumping over several hurdles to the altar where Bishop Luwalira and the Diocesan Dean Rev. Can Benon Kityo were preparing the Holy Communion. Advertisement By EPHRAIM KASOZI & JALIRA NAMYALO 
KAMPALA. A stick-wielding man who was arrested after attempting to attack Bishop Wilberforce Kityo Luwalira at the altar during Easter prayers has been remanded to Luzira Prison. 
Mr Julius Mwesigye, the presiding magistrate at Mwanga II Magistrate’s Court on Wednesday remanded Herbert Solomon Kaddu until April 24 for further mention. 
Mr Kaddu was charged with three offences of threatening Bishop Luwalira and Rev Can Kityo with violence and disturbing religious assemblies. 
Mr Kaddu, 34, a resident of Mackay Zone, Mengo in Rubaga Division, Kampala District denied the charges. 
The suspect (Kaddu) was arrested on Easter Sunday while dressed in backcloth after jumping over several hurdles to the altar where Bishop Luwalira and the Diocesan Dean Rev. Can Benon Kityo were preparing the Holy Communion. 
It is alleged that Kaddu mistimed his jump and crashed on the altar barrier and fell down, allowing time for rescue of the stranded clerics. 
Mr Kaddu was apprehended by police who were joined by congregation, ushers and priests. He was hurried out of church and the service resumed. 
Prosecution case: The state alleges that on April 1 this year, at Namirembe Cathedral, with intent to intimidate or annoy Rt Rev. Wilberforce Kityo Luwalira, Kaddu threatened to injure the said bishop. 
It is alleged Kaddu with intent to annoy also threatened to injure Rev Can Benon Kityo. 
The state further alleges that on the same date and place, Mr Kaddu voluntarily caused a disturbance to an assembly lawfully engaged in the performance or religious worship at Namirembe Church. 
Prosecutor Roseline Kipolwa said that investigations are still ongoing. She asked court to remand the suspect to allow the state complete its inquiries. 
Earlier on, the police reported Kaddu saying that he had gone to seek spiritual healing from evil spirits that have been harassing him for months. 
According to Mr Patrick Onyango, the deputy Police spokesman, Mr Kaddu told police officers that his intentions were not to harm the bishop but he had taken the backcloth and the traditional stick, which were part of his inheritance, to Bishop Luwalira for burning. 
Mr Onyango said that upon interrogation on why he forcefully gained access into the church, Mr Kaddu reportedly told police officers that he needed help from the bishop yet the security personnel would not have given him access that is why he had to beat the security by all means to try and reach the bishop.After the arrest, the suspect’s relatives told the police that he had a mental problem, but when he was examined by police medics, he was found sane. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com