Wednesday April 4 2018 Students urged to be innovative than looking for jobs C.E.O Casa safaris Uganda, Mr Saleh Namenja talking to IUIU students during the 2018 NSSF/MPL career expo. Photo by Leonard Mukholi. In Summary He urged the students to consider value addition as an important aspect for creating own opportunities and create jobs for themselves as well as other Ugandans. Mr Namenja urged the students to build up their spirit, show positive image of the country to attract investors who can in return create jobs for others. Advertisement By Leonard Mukholi 
The C.E.O Casa safaris Uganda, Mr Saleh Namenja, has urged students of Islamic University In Uganda (IUIU) to be more creative and innovative as the best way to earn a living. 
He was speaking during the 2018 NSSF/MPL career expo at IUIU. 
“Start with what you have, do not think of getting a lot of money immediately, but use your innovative skills to make the available resources more valuable,” Mr Namenja said. 
“Your future does not lie in the hands of cooperate companies, just use your innovative skills to make the available resources more valuable. Start with what you have and do not think of getting a lot of money immediately,” he advised. 
According to Namenja, many of the youths have decided to go abroad to work as maids, drivers and security guards yet there are resources that they can tap into to better their lives. 
He urged the students to consider value addition as an important aspect for creating own opportunities and create jobs for themselves as well as other Ugandans. 
Mr Namenja urged the students to build up their spirit, show positive image of the country to attract investors who can in return create jobs for others. 
“If you spread good gospel of your own country, you will attract those investors outside Uganda to come and invest, but if you continue lamenting and talking ill of your own country then you will be the one to loose cause no investor will wish to invest in Uganda,” he noted. advertisement