Ebola consultant acquitted of graft Video grab of Dr David Kaggwa's photo In Summary Prosecution contended that between January and June 2013, Dr Kaggwa while at Kagadi Hospital in Kibaale District, used the hospital facilities to carry out surgeries on his private patients for personal gain to the disadvantage of his employer, which amounted to abuse of office. Advertisement By BETTY NDAGIRE 
KAMPALA- The Anti-Corruption Court in Kampala has acquitted a consultant on Ebola disease, Dr David Kaggwa, of charges of corruption and abuse of office. 
Dr Kaggwa who was attached to Kabarole Regional Referral Hospital was accused of corruptly receiving Shs580, 000 and using government facilities to treat private patients at his previous work station in Kagadi. 
“…the circumstances under which Dr Kaggwa was carrying out the alleged services was voluntary, as Kagadi at the time did not have doctors, and he would come in on emergencies,” held Grade One Magistrate, Peter Fred Lochomin while clearing the doctor. 
Dr Kaggwa was granted bail on June 13, 2015 upon denying four counts which included three of corruption and one of abuse of office. 
While freeing the accused person, the presiding magistrate, Lochomin also observed that the evidence of paying for services at Kagadi Hospital remained unchallenged, by the prosecution, since it was normal for patients to be referred from Dr Kaggwa's clinic to the main hospital for further management. 
Upon acquittal, court as well ordered that the Shs2m that Dr Kaggwa deposited for bail be refunded to him. Court still directed that any clinical items that were confiscated and used as exhibits in this case be returned to him. 
Prosecution contended that between January and June 2013, Dr Kaggwa while at Kagadi Hospital in Kibaale District, used the hospital facilities to carry out surgeries on his private patients for personal gain to the disadvantage of his employer, which amounted to abuse of office. 
It was also stated that within the same months, he received Shs180, 000 from one Ms Juliet Tusemerirwe in order to carry out a surgical operation on her husband Mr John Mitara. 
He had also allegedly received Shs250, 000 from Ms Omuhereza Kebirungi and Shs150, 000 from Mr Iddi Kyamanywa for surgical operations on their sons. 
Dr Kaggwa was arrested in 2015, shortly after he had returned from Liberia where he had gone to offer expatriate services following the most deadly Ebola outbreak. 
bndagire@ug.nationmedia.com