Rwanda government, partners fund construction of 208-km road project – 1.1 million people to benefit March 20, 2018 Kagitumba-Kayonza-Rusumo road upgrades 'will spur regional growth' - Advertisement - 
The African Development Bank, the European Union (EU) Delegation in Rwanda, Embassy of Japan in Rwanda and Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) joined the Government of Rwanda to launch the rehabilitation and widening of the Kagitumba-Kayonza-Rusumo road works in the Eastern province of Rwanda. 
The Bank’s US $93.1 million contribution represents 51% of the total cost for the project, which will directly serve 1.1 million and facilitate travel and trade between Rwanda, Uganda and the Eastern African region. Speaking at launch of the road construction work, Martha Phiri, Country Manager of the African Development Bank in Rwanda, expressed appreciation for the strong partnership that the Bank continues to enjoy with the Government and the people of Rwanda. - Advertisement - 
She observed that the road project aligns with Rwanda’s ambition to become a regional logistical hub. “We are very proud to continue partnering with you at this very exciting time, as you embark on the final stretch in your journey of transition from a low-income to a middle-income country in line with your National Strategy for Transformation and Long Term Vision,” she said. 
She observed that the project aligns very strongly with three of the Bank’s High 5 priorities, namely Feed Africa, Integrate Africa, and Improve the quality of life for the people of Africa. The project is a component of a regional operation designed to strengthen transport links, while opening up and consolidating the market. The Rwanda section involves the rehabilitation and widening of the 208-kilometre Kagitumba-Kayonza-Rusumo Road. 
This will include two cross-border markets at Kagitumba (on the Rwanda/Uganda border) and at Rusumo (on the Rwanda/Tanzania border) and the rehabilitation of 10 milk collection centres and 10 water boreholes among other activities. The project will also provide training for 1,600 women, 7 women associations and facilitate the planting of 41,500 trees. - Advertisement -