Museveni's former aide to head COMESA’s Egypt election observer team Hope Kivengere Advertisement By PAUL TAJUBA 
Kampala- President Museveni’s former spokesperson Hope Kivengere has been selected by the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA) to head its team to observe Egypt’s presidential elections later this month. 
Egyptians go to polls on March 26-28 in what the current president Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi, who is seeking another term, is almost assured of victory after would-be strong challengers were jailed or withdrew from the race. 
The delegation According to a statement issued by COMESA, the “deployment follows an invitation from the National Elections Commission (NEC) of Egypt”.“Ms Kivengere will lead the COMESA Observer team,” reads the statement issued by Mr Mwangi Gakunga, the COMESA corporate communications head. As part of its mission in Egypt, the COMESA delegation will conduct pre-election observation which will include consultations political parties, the NEC, security agencies, civil society organisations (CSOs), the media and other stakeholders. 
“The aim is to gather information on election-related issues and to assess election preparedness. The delegation will also engage with the diplomatic community as well as with other election observers on the ground in the selected provinces,” the statement adds. 
Findings The findings of the pre-election observer missions will enhance understanding of the electoral processes in Egypt, according to the statement. The findings will be included into the detailed report that will be submitted to the NEC and the Government within 90 days from the election date. 
Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi assumed power as the head of the military in 2013 following violent protests against democratically-elected Muslim Brotherhood president Mohamed Morsi who succeeded toppled long-time leader Hosni Mubarak. 
Ms Kivengere is currently Uganda’s representative on the COMESA Committee of Elders, a nine-member committee with representatives from nine COMESA member countries.Between 2016 and 2017, she worked with Intergovernmental Authority on Development. Previously, she worked with AU peacekeeping missions in Sudan and in Somalia. 
ptajuba@ug.nationmedia.com