Thursday April 5 2018 Producers link cement scarcity to power crisis A truck loaded with cement leaves a factory at Mbalala, Mokono District recently. Photo BY STEPHEN OTAGE In Summary Challenge. They say the production process of cement is power intensive and yet they are experiencing a lack of steady power supply, a claim Umeme refutes. Advertisement By MONITOR TEAM 
Countrywide. 
The prices of a bag of cement and other manufactured building materials have on average increased by between Shs5,000 and Shs11,000 within a month, triggering a country-wide crisis in the construction sector.Some retailers, according to our surveys, are hoarding or rationing stocks and many are hiking prices to cash in on the crisis amid panic buying by prospective home owners. Pader District, about 411km from Kampala, at Shs50,000 had the highest price tag of a bag of cement in the country. This means each of the 50 kilogrammes in a standard-weight cement bag is costing Shs1,000.The two biggest cement producers; Tororo Cement factory in eastern Uganda and Hima Cement in Kasese, which collectively account for 80 per cent of the market share, blamed declined production on reduced electricity supply. They, however, declined to share specific information on the amount of electricity required to power their machineries for optimal output against what they are currently receiving. Mr Morgan Gagranihe, the Tororo Cement factory executive director, said their production is down by 600,000 tonnes to 1.2 million which, combined with increased competition for raw material by cement producers, has constrained output. 
Process The market leaders extract limestone used for making cement and purifying iron from Karamoja while other smaller brands, according to accounts we could not independently verify, import cement from the neighbouring Kenya, truck and package it somewhere in Mukono District. Asked about the cause of the cement shortage, Hima cement country chief executive Nicolas George said in a written response on Wednesday that: “...The lack of steady power supply remains our biggest challenge because our production process is power intensive; this affects production and the dispatch to the market. We are in constant engagement with Umeme to see how we can stabilise our supply for the long term.”Mr Gagranihe had in an interview with this newspaper flagged a similar problem, saying: “The quantity of power is insufficient, this affects our production and as manufacturers we appeal to government to consider addressing this.’’Umeme, the power distributor, however, rejected the claims and said the cement manufacturers were likely prioritising supplies to ongoing big-ticket energy and road infrastructure projects where large market and payments are assured.“That’s not true. Both Hima and Tororo have dedicated supply lines, which are efficiently running and monitored under our Automated Meter Reading technology that gives us alerts whenever there is any supply challenges,” Mr Stephen Ilungole, the Umeme spokesperson, stated in an email response. Both factories, he noted, had stable electricity supply throughout the first quarter of 2018. “We have made significant investments in providing dedicated feeds and lines to all the key regional manufacturing plants and entities in our effort to promote industrialisation across the country,” he wrote.Uganda currently has more electricity generated than is consumed. The country’s installed capacity is 900 megawatts while peak demand does not exceed 600 megawatts. Besides, Hima Cement has an on-site back-up power plant.According to Mr Ilungole, the producers are likely overwhelmed after big infrastructure projects began buying cement from them under the government-driven Buy Uganda, Build Uganda (BUBU) campaign. A source that preferred anonymity said one of the two market leaders has not produced cement for two months due to ongoing maintenance works.Hima Cement communications officer Carol Kezaabu said whereas they have a dedicated power supply line, “our problem is the poor quality of the power that we have been receiving in the past few months”.“Our machines are run by power and any slight dim in electricity stops the entire plant. So, because of those incidences of poor quality power, the cement production is affected hence less cement on the market,” she added.The chairperson of the Parliamentary Committee on Trade and Industry, Mr Alex Ruhunda, said he would investigate the cause of the cement crisis. 
Tororo Mr Patel Gopinath of Gopinath investment Limited, a Simba cement distributor based in eastern Uganda, said he had been told that the Kenyan government had stopped cement export after Simba factory shut operations for routine maintenance.Mr James Kisaale, the Uganda Revenue Authority assistant commissioner for trade, disputed the ban claims.“What I have heard is that there is a renovation/refurbishment happening in one of the cement manufacturers’ factory in Kenya. And that is not a ban, but a normal practice/cycle that factories tend to go through,” Mr Kisaale said.The shortages are hard-hitting because the cement factories as well make other building materials/implements such as iron sheets, nails, iron bars, barbed wire, and wheel barrows whose prices too are up. In the south-western Kabale District, the price of one 12-milimetre iron bar has increased by Shs12,000 to Shs38,000 while 10-milimetre iron bar is up at Shs28,000 from Shs16,000 due to unreliable supply.“In January this year, I was selling a bag of Hima Cement at Shs30,000 and the supply was stable but beginning with in March, the supply became unreliable and I now sell the same bag at Shs36,000. When I order for about 100 tonnes of cement, they only give me 10 tonnes. This is a serious crisis because I am not able to supply my clients, especially the contractors,” Mr George Karuhirize of Karuhize Hardware, one of the major suppliers of construction materials in Kabale Town, said.Mr Karuhirize said the delivery of supplies to customers in DR Congo by factories has remained steady.This crisis is affecting different people in the country differently. Mr Peter Nkurunungi, the director of Geses Engineers and Contractors Ltd, said the scarcity has stalled his ongoing building contracts.He appealed to the government to always put a provision for revising tender prices in case of such situations. 
Mbarara Mbarara District senior engineer Gilbert Muhangi said bidders who signed locked-in contracts should brace for losses. “We know they are suffering but we can’t do much. But if it goes to the extreme then contractors can write to contracts committee for review of the (contract) prices,” he said. Mr Gagranihe called for calm among their customers, saying the current crisis will be brought under control very soon when they commission their multibillion new cement plant which will propel their production from 1.2 million metric tonnes to 3m metric tonnes.“Our market share for the cement supply in the country still stands at 60 per cent, which we hope to consolidate further after the new cement plant is commissioned mid this month,” he said. Arua In Arua, the price of a bag of cement has shot up from Shs33,000 to Shs42,000. Mr Fat Frank, who is building a three-roomed house in Pajulu, outside Arua Town, who is constructing said: “I cannot continue with my work because the scarcity of cement has limited me to complete the ring beam and start a foundation of another house.”“I’m waiting for the price to reduce because I cannot afford to buy a bag of cement at Shs42,000 at the moment. This will delay the completion of my house which I wanted to put on rent because people are already waiting,” he said. The scarcity in Arua, a border town, is compounded by the high demand in neighbouring countries.One of the Congolese who had wanted 50 bags of cement was allowed to only buy 10 bags. “I did not know that there was scarcity because I used to buy at Shs33,000 and now this has undercut me,” Mr Pierre Alisiku said.The suppliers here say they are only waiting for the market price to stabilise. Mr Franco Alio said he believes that the scarcity is artificial; “a creative way of exploiting people that this impacts the economy negatively”. 
Acholi sub-region In Gulu, some of the hardware shop dealers told our reporters that they are selling a bag of cement at Shs42,000 up from Shs31,000 last December.“Manufacturers are claiming that there is a high production cost incurred at the moment,” a shop owner, who preferred anonymity for fear of being blacklisted as a retailer, said.The dealer said a bag of cement cost Shs40,000 as of last week, but increased by Shs2,000 over just two days, leaving elastic the changes.Tororo Cement factory is not allowing a retailer to buy more than 400 bags at once in spite of the high demand, the dealer said, adding that manufacturers and wholesalers have terminated contracts with retailers with constrained financing.“I get the cement at a high cost and I cannot sell it at the earlier price. I have decided to halt the supply,” the traders said, hinting that he may suspend the hardware business until the prices normalise.A trader in Pader Town said by early this week, there was only one retailer with cement stock and he was selling a bag at Shs50,000, the highest in the country according to our survey.In the neighbouring Kitgum District, a bag of cement was last week being sold at Shs45,000, but all had been snapped up by yesterday by panicky buyers. 
Luweero In Luweero Town, Mr Gerald Ssemanda, a hardware retailer, said cement price has changed five times per within a fortnight.Mr Ssemanda said on March 22 he sold a bag of Hima cement at Shs33,800 and Tororo cement at Shs34,500. He has since revised the prices to Shs35,000 and Shs36,000 for Hima and Tororo cement, respectively.“We have cement, but customers keep asking us the right explanation why the prices are rising each day and we don’t have [a reason],” Mr Ssemanda said.In Mbale and Tororo districts, both geographically closer to the Tororor Cement plant, some retailers are charging Shs11,000 higher per bag of cement whose price is Shs45,000, up from Shs33,000 a month ago.Mr Gagrani acknowledged that the increase in cement prices has in part to do with growing construction activities in the country and region, especially in DR Congo and South Sudan. In Uganda, builders of Karuma and Isimba dams as well as the New Nile Bridge are snapping up tonnes of cement each day, crowding out small-scale buyers. “The current crisis of cement in the market is an indication of an increased demand for cement and this gives us a task as cement manufacturing companies to double our production,” he said.Tororo Cement is due to finish the construction of $30 million (Shs114b) factory expected to make 1.2m additional tonnes to bring the company’s annual cement output to three million tonnes. That increased production may do little to change things if planned infrastructure projects such as the Standard Gauge Railway, oil and gas refineries, the pipelines and storage facilities kick to life. Mr Mitesh Dosh, the owner of Nobo Enterprise in Tororo Town, said: “There is scarcity of cement in the factories, which is pushing the prices higher every day. It’s hard to get cement now days.”The traders say they are buying a bag of cement at wholesale prices of between Shs28,000 and Shs30,000 instead of Shs22,000 two months ago.By last Friday, none of the 12 major wholesale and retail cement outlets in Soroti Town had a single bag of cement, which stock-outs in some districts is now in its third week.Ms Faridah Amal of Amal Construction Company said she failed to get a bag of cement in Soroti Town to buy and deliver to her construction site.“I bought cement from one of my wholesalers early morning at Shs31,500 per bag, later in the day when I ventured out for additional supply of 300 bags, I was told the available stock would only be sold at Shs35,000 per bag,” she said.One hardware owner, who asked not to be named said he had received no response from both Tororo and Hima cement factories he invoiced to supply him and “we are also wondering what could have happened”. 
Mbale In Mbale, Mr Haheshyi Mayuri, the manager of Dolly hardware, offered a more attractive price - Shs33,000 per bag.“It depends on the driver who transported [the cement] and number of the days he slept on the way, which we base on to set prices,” he said.Mr Haruna Ngati, another cement dealer, said he stopped selling cement due to the unpredictable price swings which has pushed away customers.“Customers felt we were cheating them because of the varying prices, which were unstable,” he said. Ms Zanaibu Namutosi, the marketing staff at United Dealers’ Hardware, said they run out of supplies a week ago and individual sellers unilaterally determine their rates.Mr Robert Mafabi, a resident of Mbale Town, said he stopped the construction of his house until the prices stabilises because he does not have sufficient disposal income to match the fast-rising price. 
Masaka Mr Deo Ssenkinga, a construction contractor in Masaka District, said he had halted some projects until the price of cement stabilises. “Cement is a critical requirement and if you are not sure of its constant supply then you cannot risk,” Mr Ssenkinga said.Mr Richard Asiimwe, a manager at Moses K Hardware, the largest cement dealer in Greater Masaka, spoke of more frequent stock-out.“The stock-out is brought by the high demand yet the supply is now limited. For example, you can order for 10 trailers (6,000 bags) from Tororo Cement factory and they supply only five (3,000 bags),” he said. 
Namutumba In Namutumba, a bag of cement costs Shs6,000 higher than a month ago. Mr John Nabongho, another cement dealer, said his hardware store has been without cement for the past two weeks and this has affected his clients’ building plans. 
Compiled by Simon Emwamu, Joseph Omollo, Alfred Tumushabe, Misairi Thembo, Al-Mahdi Ssenkabirwa, Robert Muhereza, Cissy Makumbi, Warom Felix, Polycap Kalokwera, Daniel Wandera, Ismail Ladu, Chrispus Muke &Ronald Seebe advertisement