Mubs rejects Makerere fees increment directive Prof Venansius Baryamureeba By PATIENCE AHIMBISIBWE 
Kampala. 
Makerere University Business School (Mubs) has rejected a directive from Makerere University main campus to increase tuition for graduate programmes starting this August when a new academic year begins. The Nakawa based institution, is an affiliate institution of Makerere University. The Mubs Council chairperson, Prof Venansius Baryamureeba, yesterday said they were not consulted before the decision was taken. He referred to the communication as “illegal and unfortunate” since they are not bound by Makerere University’s council policy on fees. According to Prof Baryamureeba, the tuition they collect from students facilitates the teaching of the programmes. “Mubs has not been able to recruit the desired number of students on its graduate programmes even at the current tuition. Other public universities charge less than what Mubs is charging on similar programmes. Mubs is not ready to price itself out of the market. The proposed fees by Makerere University Council are likely to exclude the majority of Ugandans who earn less than Shs500,000 per month,” Prof Baryamureeba said in a statement yesterday.On March 21, Makerere University academic registrar, Mr Alfred Masikye Namoah, wrote to Mubs’ Principal, Prof Wasswa Balunywa, informing him of the council’s directive to have fees for graduate programmes increased from the current average fee of Shs2.5 million to Shs5 million for Master’s courses while PhDs will cost Shs7 million annually.“This is to request you to revise tuition for all graduate programmes to be in line with the council directive by Makerere University. Programmes similar to those offered by main campus should charge the same fees as has been the case. This should be done as soon as possible, in any case, not later than Monday, March 26,” Mr Namoah wrote. But the Makerere University Council chairperson, Dr Charles Wana-Etyem, yesterday said his junior’s communication was misplaced as the directive was meant for programmes run at the main campus only. He explained that their relationship with Mubs only stops at the latter remitting functional fees, which Prof Baryamureeba agreed to. Mubs’ management has in the past demanded that government grants them independence from the main campus. advertisement