New IGP Ochola quashes Kayihura transfers Inspector General of Police, Mr Martins Okoth-Ochola In Summary Senior Commissioner of Police Christopher Kasalawo, who had been appointed head of the Field Force Unit (FFU), has been transferred to Oil and Gas as deputy director SCP Richard Edyegu was also sent back to the directorate of Logistics and Engineering in the same position of deputy director which he occupied a few weeks ago when he was moved to redundancy in the IGP’s office Advertisement By ANDREW BAGALA 
Kampala- The new Inspector General of Police, Mr Martins Okoth-Ochola, has reversed changes in police command and leadership which his predecessor, Gen Kale Kayihura, had made in his final days in office. In the new changes, Assistant Inspector General of Police Abbas Byakagaba, an FBI-trained officer, has been transferred back to head the Counter Terrorism Directorate. 
AIGP Byakagaba last headed the Counter Terrorism docket shortly after the twin-terror bombings in Kampala in 2010 which left about 76 football fans dead. 
He had been underemployed in the Oil and Gas Unit and would occasionally work at Kampala Metropolitan Police base. He replaces John Ndungutse, who is now the police’s attaché to Uganda’s High Commission in Nairobi, Kenya. 
Senior Commissioner of Police Christopher Kasalawo, who had been appointed head of the Field Force Unit (FFU), has been transferred to Oil and Gas as deputy director. 
SCP Stephen Tanui has been sent back to FFU as the deputy commander. He had been removed from FFU by Gen Kayihura a few weeks ago and transferred to Reserve Force. 
SCP Ali Fadhir Kaali has been transferred to FFU as the commander. Gen Kayihura had removed him from that position and sent him to Oil and Gas Unit as deputy director. 
SCP Richard Edyegu was also sent back to the directorate of Logistics and Engineering in the same position of deputy director which he occupied a few weeks ago when he was moved to redundancy in the IGP’s office. 
SCP Anne Tusiime has been sent back to Logistics and Engineering Directorate as the deputy director in charge of Construction Division.During his vetting by Parliament’s Appointments Committee about two weeks ago, IGP Ochola promised to make drastic changes in the police command structure to reshape the force which had been roundly deemed incompetent and hobnobbing with criminals. SCP Henry Tukahirwa was moved to Welfare and Production Directorate as deputy director. Two weeks ago, he was removed from Directorate of Research and Planning and transferred to the IGP’s office without specific duties.Commissioner Bazil Mugisha, who was once the head of traffic and road safety directorate before he was removed, has been sent back as deputy director.The former commissioner of Human Resource, Timothy Halango, who had not been deployed for months, has been appointed Commissioner for Strategic Planning.Commissioner Jacob Opolot has been “demoted” from deputy commander of FFU and made Operations commander in the same unit. 
More changes Commissioner Lawrence Nuwabiine has been appointed Commissioner in charge of welfare in the Directorate of Welfare and Production after nearly four years of redundancy. 
Assistant commissioner of police Dennis Namuwoza has been transferred from Kampala Metropolitan Police South where he has been commander and appointed deputy commander for Kampala Metropolitan Police. 
He replaces Senior Superintendent of Police Ezekel Emitu, who has been transferred to Aswa Police Region as commander. ACP Esther Akwango has been appointed acting Commissioner for Women Affairs. ACP Sarah Kibwika, who has been in the traffic directorate since 2002, has been appointed Commissioner for Traffic Operations.