April 5, 2018 TO BE AUDITED: Outgoing Bank of Uganda Executive Director in charge of supervision, Justine Bagyenda. 
Mobile Telecommunication giants MTN has apologized to former Executive Director in charge of Supervision at Bank of Uganda Justine Bagyenda over leaked account details of her mobile money transactions. A fortnight ago, Eagle Online exposed the account details of Ms. Bagyenda with particulars indicating that she have transacted ‘Shs500 million in three years on her mobile money account. MTN says following recent media reports surrounding the handling of confidential customer information, MTN Uganda would like to assure the public that all confidential customer information is handled and protected with highest duty of care and integrity, in accordance with established laws, processes and procedures. “We however, wish to clarify that the alledged incident of breach of confidentiality has been extensively investigated internally. The allegations of abuse and unlawful disclosure of confidential information relate to mobile money transaction records of Ms Justine Bagyenda. Reads the apology. 
“The internal investigation found staff acted outside of established processes and procedures of handling confidential customer information. The errant staff have since been handed over to the relevant authorities and are facing criminal prosecution for their individual actions. We wish to unreservedly apologise to Ms Justine Bagyenda for the inconvenience this incident may have caused her. Leaked documents from telecommunication giant, MTN reveal that former Executive Director in charge of Supervision, Justine Bagyenda made mobile money transaction of close to Shs500 million on her number in three years. The documents show that Bagyenda and her son, a one Robert Muhumuza both could have transacted to Shs500 million although most of the transactions on their numbers where deposits from other number. Much of the money didn’t last as it is immediately dispatched to other accounts. She has been supervising any cash transaction in the country given her former role as in-charge of supervision at the central bank mobile money inclusive. Eagle Online early reported that in two years, embattled Bank of Uganda Executive Director Justine Bagyenda wired Shs683 million to an account in Centenary Rural Development Bank held in the name of Kenny Muwonge, a man believed be her errand boy, as bank documents in possession show. Post Views: 188