Friday April 6 2018 State ready to prosecute Besigye over assault of police officers Dr Kizza Besigye (2nd right) and his co-accused appear before Mbarara grade one magistrate Ms Sanyu Mukasa on Friday. PHOTO BY RAJAB MUKOMBOZI In Summary Among the witnesses that state had brought included; Mbarara District Police Field Force Unit commander, Mr Collins Kaganzi, the then acting Mbarara DPC, Mr Isaac Kambugu, and the OC Operations Mbarara police Mr Swizin Tibesigwa. However, the accused’s lawyer Ms Lydia Ahimbisibwe asked for the adjournment of the case saying she was going for the Annual General Meeting for lawyers. Advertisement By RAJAB MUKOMBOZI 
MBARARA : The State has said it’s ready to prosecute former Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) presidential candidate, Dr Kizza Besigye, and his co-accused for assaulting police officers and inciting violence. 
Dr Besigye is co-accused with FDC party President Patrick Amurait, MP Mubarak Munyagwa, FDCs secretary for mobilization Ingrid Turinawe and Besigyes’s driver Fred Kato. 
They allegedly committed the offences in November last year while in Mbarara town at the heat of age limit amendment bill. 
The accused, on Friday appeared in Mbarara chief magistrate’s court to answer the charges.State prosecutor Ms Caroline Kashubi told court she was ready to proceed with the hearing and had the witnesses ready. 
“Your worship, we are ready to proceed with the hearing of the case and we have witnesses in court ready to testify,” Ms Kashubi said. 
Among the witnesses that state had brought included; Mbarara District Police Field Force Unit commander, Mr Collins Kaganzi, the then acting Mbarara DPC, Mr Isaac Kambugu, and the OC Operations Mbarara police Mr Swizin Tibesigwa. 
However, the accused’s lawyer Ms Lydia Ahimbisibwe asked for the adjournment of the case saying she was going for the Annual General Meeting for lawyers. 
“Your worship, am a member of the Uganda Law Society and all lawyers will be attending AGM, I pray that this case be adjourned at an appropriate time,” said Ms Ahimbisibwe. 
The Presiding magistrate, Ms Sanyu Mukasa, adjourned the case to May 24 for further hearing.Outside court, Dr Besigye said the state knows that they have no case, but they keep wasting their resources and time. 
“The state knows we have no case to answer, but this is just intimidation, harassment, wastage of our resources and time, “ Dr Besigye said. 
He however said this kind of intimidation and harassment will not stop their determination to fight injustice in the country. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com