Autopsy fails to find cause of priest’s death Police forensic experts who dug up the grave recently. File photo Advertisement By MISAIRI THEMBO KAHUNGU 
Kampala- Family and friends of the late Rev Fr Peter Kasooli Bwayo may have to wait a little longer to know the actual cause of his death after postmortem test by police pathologists failed to find out what killed him. 
After failing to establish the immediate cause of the priest’s death, police authorities have resolved to send samples to the government analytical laboratory in Kampala for further inquiries. 
Police released the postmortem report to the family on Tuesday following more than one week of uncertainty after the reports that the next of kin had been denied access to it. 
The priest died in the United States on June 24, 2014, and was buried at his ancestral home at Bwihonge Village in Bulambuli District. 
However, his body was exhumed on March 21, 2018, following an order issued by the Mbale Grade One Magistrate, Mr Daniel Epodu.Mr Epodu ordered the body to be disentombed after the priest’s brother, Mr Clement Bwayo, sought a fresh autopsy amid reports the cleric was interred with some unspecified treasures. 
At the time of the autopsy at the Mbale Municipal Mortuary by the police’s director for medical services Dr Moses Byaruhanga, there were no treasures found. 
Mr Joseph Obwona, the deputy director of police’s Criminal Investigations and Crime Intelligence, handed over the report that does not show the actual cause of the death to Mr Matthew Bwayo, the deceased’s next of kin on Tuesday. 
Mr Bwayo confirmed to Daily Monitor that they had received the report although the actual cause of the death was not indicated. 
“Mr Obwona gave the report yesterday (Tuesday) at his office at Kibuli but there was no cause of death indicated. The police say there are more tests still being carried out on the samples the doctor collected during the postmortem,” Mr Bwayo said. 
This newspaper has seen a letter dated April 3, 2018, and issued by Mr Obwona when he handed over a copy of the postmortem report to the family. 
In his letter, Mr Obwona said investigators are waiting for the toxicology report from the government analytical laboratories to ascertain the cause of death because the autopsy report showed no anatomical (not seen by naked eyes) causes.“The findings of the pathologist is that no anatomical cause of death seen. We are currently waiting for the toxicology report,” Mr Obwona’s letter read in part. 
In the report, the pathologist indicated that he had found a “decomposed body” in the heavy brown metallic casket something that has confused the family after finding it “fresh” at the time of the postmortem. 
Mr Bwayo said the family is wondering whether the body that was found having all the parts intact and the beards grown can be deemed “decomposed” by the pathologist. 
However, Dr Byaruhanga yesterday clarified saying despite finding the body intact, it had decomposed save for the chemical used to treat it at the point of origin in the US. 
“The body was decomposed although it was intact. A fresh body is one of a person that has died in the last 24 hours. But this body was found intact because it was embalmed (treated) and remained intact because of the chemical used for treatment,” Dr Byaruhanga said. 
He also clarified on the findings of the postmortem, saying that with the mere observation of the body, there was no cause of death but asked the family to wait for the toxicology report. 
Dr Byarugaba said the toxicology report will be handed over to the investigating officers by the government analytical laboratory when it is ready. 
“I don’t have authority over the lab but the investigating officer will be informed when the results are ready. In my report, I categorically put it that there was no anatomical cause of death but a laboratory analysis of the samples I picked will tell better,” he said. 
In his report, the pathologist said he had taken off parts of liver, kidney, piece of sternum borne, piece of scalp with hair and nails from right middle fingers for toxicology analysis. 
mkthembo@ug.nationmedia.com