FORTRESS LUGOGO: KCCA can ride on home advantage to make more history, money By Denis West There is a growing belief at KCCA FC that even the mightiest can fall at StarTimes Stadium-Lugogo. Now that they are unbeaten at the Lugogo artificial turf in over eight matches on the continent, KCCA FC fans and administrators are waiting for Wednesday’s group draws in Cairo, Egypt without any trace of fear. “Bring on Al Ahly, Esperance, TP Mazembe or Mamelodi Sundowns, we will floor them all,” Livingstone Mulindwa, a confident KCCA fan, shouted in excitement after his club trounced St George to make it to the lucrative group stages. As long as the draws pit KCCA against one or two big boys of African football and one ‘moderate’ opponent, be sure of surprises. Many predicted doom when KCCA, after ejecting Egyptian giants Al Masry, was rewarded with Fus Rabat, Rivers and Club Africain in the Confederations group. KCCA beat all of them at Lugogo and missed out on quarterfinal berth on goal difference. If KCCA is to defy the odds and make it to the Caf Champions League quarterfinals, they must improve their horrible away record. The draw away in Addis Ababa recently gave hope that club manager Mike Mutebi is doing all he can to address the away blues that has been hindering their progress. Then the other concept of fixture arrangement can also come in the picture; if KCCA starts with a home win, the momentum to tussle on would have been given a great threshold. Talking of a great start, KCCA are mindful of the suspension to first choice custodian Charles Lukwago for the first game. This will require either Jamal Maliyamungu or Thomas Ikara to step up and propel the club to a clean sheet and victory of course. 
Then there is the money factor, as KCCA Executive Director Jennifer Musisi Ssemakula rewarded the triumphant boys with $150000 (shs540m) on Monday at Lugogo, you could sense that the players wanted to work harder and get more money. For starters, making the last eight would guarantee KCCA US$675,000 (Shs2.4bn), $875,000 (Shs3.1bn) if they make the last four and US$2.25m (Shs8.1bn) if Lady Luck smiles their way and they lift the trophy aloft. KCCA management is also talking big to morale boast the boys’ fighting spirit, they have promised to get an estate around the city suburb with already constructed houses all players can buy gradually to boast their welfare. The other push factor may be Mutebi’s strategic plans in making KCCA a great force in African football that has started to reap benefits. He has vowed to hold onto his best players even if bigger clubs on the continent have reportedly started monitoring key players like Timothy Awany, Derrick Nsibambi, Muzamir Mutyaba, Muhammad Shaban and Allan Okello. KCCA have already punched above their weight and any other monumental achievement will not come because of pressure but due to self-driven motives. Aluta Continua. 2018 Caf Champions League Group stage teams Caf draws for Wednesday 21 in Cairo Southern Africa Mbabane Swallows, Zesco, Mamelodi Sundowns, Township Rolers, Primero Agosto North Africa Al Ahly, Esperance, DH Jadidi, MC Alger, Wydad, ES Setif, ES Sahel Central Africa 