Friday April 6 2018 Government reduces power tariffs for industrialists by one shilling A woman checks her Yaka metre recently. On average, a household consumes 80 units a month. FILE PHOTO In Summary Each unit of Bujagali’s power costs ten US cents (Shs370) compared with one US cent (Shs37) that Kiira-Nalubaale hydropower costs. The waiver, ERA said in February, had lessened by 11 per cent an increment in the retail tariff. Advertisement By Nelson Wesonga 
Kampala- The Electricity Regulatory Authority (ERA) has chipped off Shs1 from the end-user electricity tariffs for industrial consumers. Extra-large industrial users will pay Shs1.6 less (Shs369.5) per unit whereas large industrial consumers will pay Shs1.1 less (Shs374.4) per unit. Consumers who use between 415 volts and 500 kilovolt amperes will pay Shs1 less (Shs591.5) per unit whereas small-scale industrial consumers, fuel pump operators and millers will pay Shs0.7 less (Shs647.6) per unit. The new rates will apply from April through June 2018, according to a notice on the ERA Website. Power used in residential buildings, shops, salons and kiosks will cost 0.4 less (Shs718.5) per unit whereas mini-supermarket and clinic operators as well as restaurateurs will pay Shs647.6, down from Shs648.3 per unit. Each unit used for street lighting will cost Shs701.5, down from Shs701.9 per unit. The reductions are attributed to a plan to reduce the uptake of power from the mini-hydro power plants, which charge for each unit sold. Instead, more power from the Kiira-Nalubaale and the Bujagali hydropower plants will be used this quarter. Kiira-Nalubaale and Bujagali are paid a fixed rate irrespective of the quantity of power they sell, meaning when more of their power is used, the unit cost figuratively goes down. When the Daily Monitor contacted Mr Richard Sserwadda, a miller in Lubaga Kampala, to comment on the reduction, he said ERA could do better. “There is nothing they have done. It would have made sense if they had reduced the tariff by either Shs100 or Shs150 per unit,” Mr Sserwadda said. “Some of us voted for President Museveni in the 2016 elections because he had promised to reduce power tariffs to five US cents [Shs185], the Shs0.7 reduction is nothing.” Mr Sserwadda argued that since Uganda is using more hydro power, in other words less thermal energy, power tariffs should be considerably lower. Whereas hydro is cheaper than thermal power, because of Bujagali hydropower plant, which generates 44 per cent of the power on the grid, the retail tariff is higher. Each unit of Bujagali’s power costs ten US cents (Shs370) compared with one US cent (Shs37) that Kiira-Nalubaale hydropower costs. Kiira-Nalubaale generates close to 40 per cent of the power on the grid. To bring down Bujagali Energy’s generation tariff to eight US cents (Shs296) per unit, the government granted Bujagali Energy Limited a five-year corporation tax waiver. The waiver, ERA said in February, had lessened by 11 per cent an increment in the retail tariff.