Maj Gen (rtd) Emilio Mondo, board chairperson of Citizenship and Immigration Control Advertisement By Moses Kyeyune 
KAMPALA- The instability afflicting the Directorate of Immigration seems to be fast spreading to the entire Ministry of Internal Affairs about three weeks after President Museveni ordered dismissal of senior officials. 
Last month, Mr Museveni ordered the minister of Internal Affairs, Gen Jeje Odongo, to fire the director of Citizenship and Immigration Control, Mr Godfrey Sasaga, and commissioner for Immigration, Mr Anthony Namara, for alleged insubordination, which the President said bordered on “sabotage.” 
It has emerged there has been a major fallout between the Citizenship and Immigration Control board headed by Maj Gen (rtd) Emilio Mondo on one hand, and the Permanent Secretary, Dr Benon Mutambi, on the other. 
Dr Mutambi accused On September 20, 2017, Maj Gen Mondo petitioned Gen Odongo complaining of “salient problems and challenges faced by the Directorate of Citizenship and Immigration Control.” 
He accused Dr Mutambi of usurping powers of the board. 
“Whereas the employees of the Directorate are employees of the Public Service, and they are therefore bound by the Public Service Act and Public Service Regulations; it is only fair for the Permanent Secretary to use proper administrative procedures over employees of the Directorate,” Maj Gen Mondo’s petition reads in part. 
“This is necessary for the purposes of proper running of the board’s mandated activities according to the Act,” Mr Mondo added.He alleged that Dr Mutambi was taking advantage of the absence of a full board to make such manoeuvres seeking to restructure the Immigration Directorate. 
“He has written to the Ministry of Public Service without clearance from the Ministry’s (Internal Affairs) political leaders, and without due regard to other stakeholders in the Directorate, requesting for a restructuring exercise,” Gen Mondo told Gen Odongo.“On account of this, he [Dr Mutambi] has appointed himself to chair his constituted restructuring committee meeting albeit in the absence of other key stakeholders. As a result, his one-man restructuring exercise has ignored the existing Draft Policy of Immigration, which validates any restructuring of the Directorate,” Mr Mondo added. 
He also alleged that whereas the Directorate is answerable to Parliament, Dr Mutambi has on several occasions demanded them to be accountable to him.“Thus the conflict being generated that the director should account to the Permanent Secretary is illegal and uncalled for,” Gen Mondo charged. 
Allegations dismissedWhen contacted yesterday, Dr Mutambi said he was aware of Mr Mondo’s allegations but dismissed them and added he had already given his position on the claims. 
“The allegations on usurping powers were made and I responded to them. What is important is to have a clear understanding of the functions of the board and the office of the Permanent Secretary,” Dr Mutambi told Daily Monitor.On the allegation that he wants the Immigration Directorate to account to him, Dr Mutambi said he suspects there are people within the ministry, who fear to be supervised. 
Regarding heading the restructuring committee as complained by Maj Gen Mondo, he said no other person or authority can head such a committee except the Permanent Secretary, who is responsible for the technical administration of the ministry. 
Dr Mutambi further said as the technical head of the ministry, it is imperative that other “smaller units” subordinate thereto report to him. He said this is meant to enable him keep abreast with the day-to-day operations of the ministry except for autonomous agencies such as the National Identification and Registration Authority and the Non-Government Organisations Bureau. 
Old boardApparently, there is more controversy brewing in the Immigration Directorate regarding the board composition. After the expiry of the old board’s tenure, Gen Odongo on March 21, 2017 wrote to President Museveni seeking him to reappoint John Eresu Elyanu, Faisal Kikulukunyu Ssali, Beatrice Byenkya Nyakaisiki, Elizabeth Sylvia Nabakka Musazi and Maj Kibrai Ambako for another term as board members. 
He also proposed that Ms Elizabeth Adecho be included as a new member to replace Ms Jane Akwero Adwong, whose second and last term had expired. After a year of vain waiting, Dr Mutambi on February 27, wrote to the President’s Principal Private Secretary reiterating Gen Odongo’s call and need for a new board. 
Dr Mutambi argued that the board is an important institution yet it had not been fully constituted almost a year after Gen Odongo’s communication to the President. 
New boardOn March 20, the President acted. He appointed a new board and the candidates’ names have been submitted to the Speaker of Parliament for vetting. 
However, the President appointed new members totally different from the names Gen Odongo had submitted to him. 
The new board is comprised of Ms Beatrice Amongi Lagada, Lameck N. Mukasa, Eria Hisali, Sarah Wasagali Kanaabi, Lt Col Donald Mugimba and Dr Benon Mugisha Mutambi, the permanent secretary of Internal Affairs Ministry. However, Maj Mondo was retained as the board chairman because his contract is still running. 
Dr Mutambi’s inclusion on the board has since triggered internal controversy. Some ministry officials claim his appointment amounts to conflict of interest. 
Dr Mutambi yesterday dismissed the claim of conflict of interest, but added that he had not seen the President’s letter appointing him to the new board. 
He argued that there cannot be conflict of interest because the board is under the ministry, whose technical head is the permanent secretary, which he is. 
It was not clear why Mr Museveni ignored Gen Odongo’s recommendation to reappoint members of the old board. However, Gen Odongo, like Dr Mutambi, explained that the President is not obliged to abide by the minister’s recommendations. 
“The President is not obliged to take my recommendations. He can take my recommendations or he can pick from those and add others or he can completely disregard it and pick on a new team,” he said. mkyeyune@ug.nationmedia.com