Friday April 6 2018 Kenzo donates 3 awards to museum Artiste Eddy Kenzo (centre) displays his music award accompanied by Mr Steven Asiimwe, the chief executive officer of Uganda Tourism Board (left) in Kampala yesterday. PHOTO BY MICHAEL KAKUMIRIZI Advertisement By Isaac Ssejjombwe 
Kampala- Three international award plaques are the latest addition to the collection of artefacts at the Uganda Museum. Delivered with pomp and excitement by musician Edrisa Musuuza, aka Eddy Kenzo and his fans yesterday, the awards are meant to inspire Ugandan youth to follow their dreams. 
“My intention was to donate only one award (BET) because I want to inspire the youth and grandchildren but instead of one, I have decided to donate three awards which I think will help in motivating people out there to chase their dreams,” Kenzo said. 
Among the awards he dedicated include his prestigious BET award which he won in 2015, the first in East Africa, Kunde award from Burkina Faso also won in 2015 and the Afrima Award won last year. 
The artiste, who has four music albums to his name, also recently won the Favourite African Star category in the Nickelodeon Kids’ Choice Awards, beating stars such as Caster Semenya (South Africa), Davido (Nigeria), Emmanuella (Nigeria) and Diamond Platinumz (Tanzania). 
“Eddy Kenzo has done Uganda proud. We are privileged and excited because of his triumph as he has put Uganda on a world map. He has given us an international profile,” Mr Steven Asiimwe, the chief executive officer of Uganda Tourism Board, said. Mr Asiimwe commended Kenzo for donating the awards for the public. 
He described the donation as a sign of sacrifice and announced that the musician will receive free access to tourism sports, including national parks and game reserves. 
Mr Asiimwe also said the tourism industry will work with Kenzo and other artistes to ensure that Uganda’s tourism sites are used as a background in their video shoots as it will help boost the tourism. 
Kenzo’s fans welcomed the remarks with ululation and sang along to his popular songs such as Sitya loss, Stamina and Jamboree and took selfies with the star. 
An equally elated Kenzo told fans that he was thrilled about his success internationally, attributing it to the Grace of God. 
issejjombwe@ug.nationmedia.com