Tools you must have in your car A tool box. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary If you have driven long enough you surely know that getting a flat tyre is as easy as turning the ignition. A dead battery sometimes occurs without warning but in many cases it does. Of course flashlights on our phones have made it a little easier but they are not as dependable. Advertisement By Mustafa Ziraba 
It is inevitable for cars to break down. These break downs are really frustrating and nerve-wracking. Most drivers get furious with the unexpectedness of break downs. Preparing for the unexpected ahead of time is definitely a must for all drivers out there. Jack and spanner If you have driven long enough you surely know that getting a flat tyre is as easy as turning the ignition. Any car without the means to change a tyre is a problem waiting to happen. You can find the jack and spanner at any of the used car parts markets. Always check that the spanner actually fits the tyre nuts. Many times drivers have found that they have spanners that do not fit the nuts on the tyres. Also, always have a spare tyre that is properly inflated. 
Jumper cables A dead battery sometimes occurs without warning but in many cases it does. In cases where there’s no warning, counting on someone else to have jumper cables is too risky. Therefore, purchase a nice set of black and red cables to have on hand. Having a dead battery can really ruin your day. Do not make it worse by not having the jumper cables necessary to bring your car back to life. Set of repair tools Of the two or three tools even the least likely driver is apt to own, one is probably a pair of pliers. This can be used in any number of ways such as gripping, turning, bending and cutting making it extremely useful in performing a number of activities under the bonnet.There are many types and sizes of pliers. Although each is designed for specific purposes, their versatility makes some pliers adaptable for many jobs. Then there is the popular size 10 spanner. Several screws on cars are this size. In fact higher tier cars always have a set of company used tools, a node to the fact that every car needs them. 
Torch This will come in handy if you need to change a tyre or perform any other car repair. Of course flashlights on our phones have made it a little easier but they are not as dependable. Furthermore phone flashlights are never really intended for long time use and surely not for use around a hot engine or poking around under a vehicle. A good flashlight can withstand that and more while letting off more light.With just this little bit of fix-it-and-forget-it preparation, you can save yourself a huge amount of time and money if an emergency befalls you. If you are mechanically inclined, you might also want to include some more advanced tools in the boot, but if you have no idea what you would be doing with them, they are not necessary. advertisement