Friday April 6 2018 Welcome the all new 2019 Subaru Forester The all-new 2019 Subaru Forester is designed to go anywhere while fighting driver fatigue and distracted driving. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary The Forester is a popular compact crossover in Uganda especially for the first two generations which are quite affordable. The latest model features Subaru core technologies including EyeSight driver assist system, Symmetrical All-Wheel Drive built around newly developed direct-injection engines, and X-Mode for enhanced all-terrain drivability. In addition to the functional and user-friendly cabin layout, the instrument panel and console have been combined for a more relaxed feeling of freedom in addition to the hardiness you demand from an SUV. Advertisement By Jude Katende 
This will definitely come up as good news to Subaru fans in Uganda. See, Subaru as a car brand has a good following in Uganda. They even have an association called Subaru Owners Association Uganda. The news is that last week (March 28), at the New York auto show, the 2019 Subaru Forester was unveiled. 
The Forester is a popular compact crossover in Uganda especially for the first two generations which are quite affordable. The first generation was made in 1997 which means its taxes are lower just as the second generation made (2002–2008). The third generation is available in Uganda but it is rare as most people regard such cars as “new” going by its years of manufacture (2009–2013). What makes the Forester popular is because it was built more like a passenger car yet it offers the sturdiness of an SUV. In fact, Subaru advertising employed the slogan “SUV tough, Car Easy”. 
The Forester’s Japanese competitors include the Toyota RAV4, Mitsubishi RVR, and the Suzuki Grand Vitara. The fourth generation was made in (2013–2018). Going by the pictures I saw, the 2019 Forester is beautiful but does not deviate much in looks from the fourth generation. As a top-selling model of Subaru’s global sales, the fifth-generation Forester is positioned as a key part of the company’s global strategy. 
User friendly The new model features packaging that allows all passengers to share comfort and enjoyment, balancing easy handling with a spacious interior, and user-friendly features. In line with Subaru’s design philosophy “Dynamic x Solid,” the new design combines the hardiness of an SUV with user-friendly comfort and convenience. The Subaru Global Platform achieves top-of-its-class collision safety and hazard avoidance, along with handling that responds exactly as the driver intended, and comfortable drivability. 
The latest model features Subaru core technologies including EyeSight driver assist system, Symmetrical All-Wheel Drive built around newly developed direct-injection engines, and X-Mode for enhanced all-terrain drivability. The latest model also features improved performance and an everyday experience of excitement and enjoyment, offering comfort, fun, and adventure. As well as making the interior more spacious, Subaru says it has made it quieter because the new global platform has been designed to resist noise, vibration and harshness making it easier to have a conversation inside the vehicle. 
Comfortable Although the wheelbase has been increased for a more comfortable cabin space, the minimum turning radius is just 5.4 m, ensuring excellent ease of handling. The new model combines the toughness of an SUV with functionality, based on the “Dynamic x Solid” design philosophy common to all Subaru vehicles. In addition to the functional and user-friendly cabin layout, the instrument panel and console have been combined for a more relaxed feeling of freedom in addition to the hardiness you demand from an SUV. 
Availability The new Forester will go on sale in the South Africa market in the first quarter of 2019. Specifications and power units are still to be confirmed for the local introduction and are expected to differ from the US Spec model revealed. It is not yet clear if Kampala Motors, the Subaru local dealers will also have it here. The new model features packaging that balances excellent handling with the roomiest cabin yet, offering comfort and enjoyment for family and friends and easy-to-use features. 
The all-new 2019 Subaru Forester is designed to go anywhere while fighting driver fatigue and distracted driving. COURTESY PHOTO advertisement