Friday April 6 2018 The roof of my car has had a persistent leakage A good garage should be able to fix the drainage, replace the roof lining and carry out computer diagnostics to confirm failure of the ARC control module before replacement. That should sort you out. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary A blocked roof storm drainage system and a faulty Land Rover ARC air suspension and height control module. The roof of your Range Rover sport is designed with a storm water drainage system which ensures that water is channeled past the sunroof through pipes and out through the lower panels of the vehicle. Advertisement By Paul Kaganzi 
Hello Paul, my Range Rover Sport 2008 has two problems. The roof has a persistent leakage during washing or when it rains and the roof lining has dropped off. There is also a persistent red light showing a picture of the car and two arrows pointing sideways. I also noticed that the car leans to one side when parked on a flat surface. How can I solve these problems? Hamidu Kisakye 
Hello Hamidu, your Range Rover Sport may have two problems; a blocked roof storm drainage system and a faulty Land Rover ARC air suspension and height control module. The roof of your Range Rover sport is designed with a storm water drainage system which ensures that water is channeled past the sunroof through pipes and out through the lower panels of the vehicle. 
Overtime, the channels get blocked by dust or debris turned into sludge. The system has to be inspected and unblocked or the pipes replaced in case they are damaged. The blockage causes a leakage of water from the rain or car wash. This problem occasionally happens with all sports utility vehicles such as Mercedes Benz, BMW and Toyota, which are parked in the open and exposed to dust intrusion overtime.That leakage will not only damage the roof lining but also the electronics such as the sunroof and interior light control panel, the all-terrain control module or the ARC (height control air suspension module) which is tucked away on the right lower corner of the driver foot well area. 
That might be the reason why the ARC fault light is showing on your dash board and the vehicle air suspension and self-leveling system has failed (the reason the vehicle tilts to one side when you park). A good garage should be able to fix the drainage, replace the roof lining and carry out computer diagnostics to confirm failure of the ARC control module before replacement. That should sort you out. advertisement