Fall Armyworm: $ 400,000 prize awaits anyone with digital tools to help identify, stop its tracks   
What can fly 1,000 miles in 30 hours, destroying crops along the way? -An invasive pest called Fall armyworm (FAW). This insect may be small, but it’s a big threat to food security in Arica. It is marching across the continent devastating farmers. 
Now USAID is seeking digital tools that can help farmers identify fall armyworm and stop it in its tracks. If you can help, you could win $400,000. The prize is seeking digital tools and approaches that provide timely, context-specific information that enable smallholder farmers and those who support them to identify, treat, and track incidence of fall armyworm in Africa. The FAW poses a serious threat to food security in sub-Saharan Africa. Originally from the Americas, FAW outbreaks first occurred in West Africa in early 2016 and are now on the precipice of devastating food supplies across the continent, exacerbating global poverty and hunger. - Advertisement - 
FAW attacks more than 80 different plant species and agriculture experts estimate the pest may cause over $13 billion in losses for crops like maize, sorghum, rice, and sugarcane. It can also fly up to 1,600 kilometers (nearly 1,000 miles) in 30 hours meaning it can easily migrate to surrounding farms and countries. 
Given the spread and rate of the outbreak, interventions are needed at a transnational level. Information on how to respond and prevent the pest needs to quickly be transmitted to smallholder farmers and those who advise them. 
In order to control the spread of FAW and reduce the risk of a future humanitarian crisis, smallholder farmers need improved access to immediate, accurate and actionable information on how to mitigate, identify and combat the fall armyworm. 
Five prizes totalling $400,000 in prizes will be made as follows: One grand prize of $150,000 to the most viable solution Two significant awards of $75,000 to the most promising solutions Two up and comer awards of $50,000 to early stage developments that show the most potential 
Participant Journey 
For more information about the entry process, Judging Criteria, Eligibility Criteria and Terms and Conditions; Prospective competitors can also send queries via email to fawtechprize@nesta.org.uk. - Advertisement -