KCCA to turn plastic waste into goldmine   
Plastic in Kampala City will no longer be treated as mere waste. It’s going to be a cash cow to many city residents who can harvest and deliver plastic to the recycling plant which is in the final stage of construction. Equally important, is the planned processing of organic waste from city markets into fish feed and manure for the city plant nursery. 
Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) is poised to unveil the new waste recycling initiative in May 2018 that will take organic solid waste from markets and plastic waste from the general public and turn it into revenue-generating products. KCCA’s Executive Director Dr. Jennifer Musisi on Tuesday checked the site to establish completion progress, accompanied by the entire Senior Management Team from KCCA, and Coca-Cola Beverages Africa Public Affairs and Communications Director, Simon Kaheru. - Advertisement - 
KCCA with funding from the World Bank to the tune of US$1million constructed the plant as part of the Lake Victoria Environment Management Project (LVEMP). Musisi commended the staff of KCCA who have implemented the recycling project, led by Project Manager Dr. James Semuwemba, Architect Bernadette Ssanyu and Mr. Sowed Sewagudde from Ministry of Water for this life changing initiative. The recycling site sits on 3,100 square meters of land in Wankoko close to the city sewerage treatment plant in Industrial Area. 
“You have done well to reclaim this land and put it to good use in recycling – turning solid waste into valuable products and ridding the city of waste. The markets will now be much cleaner, and our drains will also be cleared of plastic waste,” Musisi added. At the Recycling Centre, organic solid waste from the city markets will be reconverted into animal feeds for nonherbivorous animals, and manure for the new city plant nursery, while the plastic waste will be collected for processing into plastic flakes to manufacture various products. 
The organic solid waste from markets will be processed using equipment developed and made in Uganda by the Uganda Industrial Research Institute, at a rate of 30 tons a month. Musisi thanked Coca-Cola Beverages Africa for being a lead partner on the project and supporting LVEMP and KCCA’s drive to get rid of plastic waste. 
The project is expected to present numerous opportunities and create jobs for over 1500 people along the entire chain as well as improve environmental management. KCCA will buy high density plastic at UGX. 600 per kilo while low density plastic will attract UGX. 250 per kilo. - Advertisement -