Saturday April 7 2018 She inspired women to fight for their rights Winnie Madikizela-Mandela is as much admired as she is vilified over allegations of her involvement with vigilante groups during the 1980s. Courtesy photo In Summary Lessons. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s resistance and resilience in the face of apartheid won her lasting respect and a place in history. Carolyne B. Atangaza asked women how they will remember her. Advertisement By Carolyne B. Atangaza 
Winnie Madikizela-Mandela is as much admired as she is vilified over allegations of her involvement with vigilante groups during the 1980s. Never one to shy away from criticism, the mother of the nation as she was sometimes known explained that she was the product of the masses of my country and the product of my enemy. Declaring, “They think because they have put my husband on an island that he will be forgotten. They are wrong. The harder they try to silence him, the louder I will become,” Winnie mobilised masses and, hand in hand, urged them on, vowing that “with their matches and necklaces” they would liberate South Africa. It is this fierce spirit of defiance and refusal to crack under the weight of oppression and imprisonment that turned a little known social worker, the ex-wife of freedom fighter Nelson Mandela into a revered anti-apartheid activist and politician. 
Rosie Motene Managing Director, Waka Talent Agency “Growing up in apartheid South Africa, we were made to believe many stories that were told through the oppressors’ eyes. These types of stories always labelled black people in an incredibly negative light, from being communists, ignorant and violent. I remember being told that one of the most evil women alive was Winnie Mandela, who is incredibly dangerous. Then fast forward to my early 20s, I was walking through the streets of Braamfontein en route to university, when I noticed a lot of commotion, somebody said that Winnie Mandela was standing on the side of the road. I remember wanting to run away, as the fear that had been instilled in me told me to do. Then I stopped and I felt intrigued to see her in the flesh. As I walked closer to the crowd, she got out of the car and smiled at her passersbys and in a split second, looked at me. In her eyes, I saw warmth and affection and definitely not evil. 
I made the realisation that I needed to learn and understand more about her and the politics of our country. The universe opened up opportunities for me that connected me with people who could share facts and personal stories regarding this phenomenal woman. I learnt through many discussions with people who had been living in exile as well as people who came from political families. I soon understood that this powerhouse of a woman was feared and hated as she stood up to the truth, she had a cause and she fought for it despite what challenges and trauma were thrown at her. I so wished that I could meet her one day, just to feel her feminine power and strength, that day came in 2010. I was presenting a show that honoured African icons. I also had the opportunity of presenting her with an award. The best part of the day was sitting and chatting with her and how she had followed my career and the soap opera ‘Generations’ and then of course when we hugged at our departure. She truly was the mother of the nation. ‘Mama, thank you for your spirit, your resilience and power. They tried so many times to crash you but they failed at every attempt’. May her dear soul rest in power!” 
Hilda Twongyeirwe ED - FEMRITE Uganda Even when everybody thought she would break from the pressure of her mistakes of the revolution, she drew from her internal strengths and she survived. We can survive; even when she had divergent views she had the humility to eventually say sorry which many of us fail to do. 
Syda Bumba MP, Nakaseke Winnie Mandela was an inspiring freedom fighter and a source of courage for women all over the world but most importantly African women. She was a good role model who encouraged women to come to the forefront and contribute meaningfully to their countries. 
Mary Karooro Okurut MP Bushenyi “The way Winnie Mandela took on the battle against apartheid encouraged me that you can keep going on. She was strong willed, focused and knew what she wanted for her people and nothing could detract her from achieving that. For this selfless dedication to liberating her people, she became an icon of resistance and her name I have no doubt will live on in eternity. 
Cissy Kagaba Executive director anti-corruption coalition Uganda One thing I picked from Winnie Mandela is that women can survive against all odds. If you realise she spent most of her life in the political arena fighting against a system that was much stronger than her but she defied it and came out the victor. advertisement