Bulo topple Kibuli at annual Umea Islamic Solidarity Games Advertisement By GEORGE KATONGOLE 
MBALE- A combination of expert goalkeeping by Aziz Kisitu and lack of luck for Kibuli earned Bulo Parents their second Umea Solidarity Games football title on Monday in Mbale. 
Bulo, who have lost the past three finals since their last win in 2011 were on the back foot for most of the period but exacted revenge over Kibuli who beat them in 2013. After a goalless draw in an entertaining game, Bulo won 5-4 on penalties. 
Without conceding Bulo had reached the finals without conceding in open play and 18-year-old Kisitu, acquired from Kazo Hill to replace first choice Mutwalibu Mugoloofa who was snatched by Kitende, put up man of the match performance. 
In the first half, he denied a star-studded Kibuli side thrice in the first half and four time in the second half before denying Solomon Okello during the spot kicks. Kibuli had an array of stars including Sadat Anaku, Walter Ochora, Joel Jangayembe, Herbert Acai and Umar Kyebatala. “I am happy that I was able to keep a clean sheet,” said 18-year-old Kisitu, the goalie for Ffumbe clan. 
But Kibuli had the consolation of emerging overall winners after winning gold in badminton and handball as well as silver in netball and football. 
Learning point Newcomers Kasawo Islamic, who will host next year’s event, left Mbale with tails between their legs conceding 16 goals times in three group games. 
This wasn’t worse than fellow debutants Kinaawa Kasangati who conceded 27 times including an 11-0 half-time trouncing by Nkoma before they refused to return for the second half. Kasawo’s director Kassim Kajaya regretted the rude welcome but applauded it as a stepping stone. “I have leant a lot of things if we are to build a formidable team,” he said. 
Low turn-upOnly three schools from Mbale; Nkoma, Mbale Progressive and Hamdan were present. Just over 20 schools took part. Traditional schools like Naggalama, Bukoyo, Kibibi and Kakungulu among others kept organisers guessing. 
The chairman organising committee Twahir Kitezaala pointed out the huge costs among the reasons. Schools pay subscription to enter athletes in the games. Tropical Bank and Pepsi partly funded the event. 
Cross-country introducedKitezaala unveiled that cross country will be added on the menu next season. Currently, teams compete in football, handball, volleyball, table tennis, badminton and netball. 
2018 UMEA WINNERS