Volunteer draws body of drowned teenager from sewage lagoon Lira sewage pond where the teenager drowned. PHOTO BY TOBBIAS JOLLY OWINY Advertisement By TOBBIAS JOLLY OWINY 
LIRA. A volunteer identified only as Okot on Thursday evening dived into the sewage Western Lagoon in Tedam village, Barogole parish in Ojwina division in Lira town and retrieved the body of a 17-year old teenager who drowned in the facility. Both police and National Water and Sewage Corporation staff had declined to intervene and remove the body of the deceased Joshua Olwa by 5PM even when the matter was reported to them shortly when he drowned at around 8:30 am in that morning. According to eyewitnesses and mechanics at a motor garage adjacent to the lagoon, Olwa had initially entered Victory Outreach Church a few meters away from the lagoon but came out of the church while running and jumped into the lagoon. Although onlookers at the scene feared that reptiles in the lagoon may have eaten Olwa since it took long to float, Okot dived into the water from the spot where he was told Olwa jumped from, only to return with his body a few minutes later. Police only reappeared at the scene at about 7PM to move the body to Lira morgue after Okot had retrieved it. Lira DPC Mr Joel Tubanone earlier on told Daily Monitor that they received information about the incidence but could not do much since the fire unit did not have any diving equipment. “Our team went there immediately after the incident, but they just returned since they could not attempt to dive into the sewerage lagoons without diving equipment,” Mr Tubanone said. According to the deceased’s grandmother Ms Margret Alupo, Olwa had been undergoing mental rehabilitation at Lira referral hospital Psychiatric unit for the last three last weeks from where he had escaped. Ms Alupo told Daily Monitor that Olwa developed a unique mental disorder two months ago after his parents declined to pay secondary school studies despite sitting twice and scoring division one in PLE. The deceased is a resident of Ocokocan, Awungu parish, Iceme, Oyam district. advertisement