Government moves to start taxing churches ‘‘Christians called upon to resist the new tax.’’ April 7, 2018 - Advertisement - 
By Michael David Kyazze The government of Uganda is slowly stretching out it fingers to dip them deeper into church revenues,rumors have it that in the dark corridors of politics, an egg has been laid in form of a draft bill to recommend church taxation. In my opinion this will be a redefinition of the meaning of the word charity and a blow to the essence of having charity Church organizations in Uganda. 
For years the indigenous local charitable Church organization (Pentecostal Churches); have been plagued by social jealousies, political persecutions and the ‘big brother’ betrayal and scheming’s by the Orthodox Christian churches. This time once again the birth of this taxation idea is being proposed while most Church leaders in Pentecostal circle are unaware of the development. The sad thing is that it is not politician something it on their own , but rather with some Pastors and Bishops , I regard this to be unfair and foul play. - Advertisement - 
Why tax local churches? 
There many reasons fronted by the proponents of this idea are:– the claim that Churches and Pastors are having a kill and pastors have become too rich by “leaping” off their congregants and driving expensive cars along with owning my big Homes .– The money in Chruch should be sucked into government revenue where it can be used to extend services through better hands to the people 
– The Taxes would help regulate the sprouting churches and struggle some to death .– The need to create more taxe bases to assist URA to hit their revenue targets . The Truth : Churches pay taxes :– churches pay VAT, PAYE,they have import tax exemptions, they pay for Utilities ,among other taxes . Above all church members are part of this economy and they too pay taxes like all Ugandans do,It would unfair to slap a worship tax on top of what they already pay . 
Are we really required to pay taxes because we do not pay or this is another ecumenical move to amalgamate the unwilling and will Pentecostal in the funny umbrella of Ugandan, Joint, council? I believe one of the requirements for verified Churches is planned to be the worship tax license that will be levied for every Church either per head or percentage off the estimated income of the church . I am afraid to say that the taxation requirement may not lure churches into the fake religious umbrella being politically formed by the Ministry of Ethics and integrity which is seeking revenue to run its inert and barren ministry. 
I am totally against the idea of taxing a Church which is offering services to its community by establishing Schools , Hospitals ,Saccos , Jobs etc . Besides , even if the Chruch doesn’t do all those, it is our right to associate and worship the way we wish 
Government, should learn from developed nations which support churches to extend services to its people . I call on Christians to resist Church taxation. - Advertisement -