Home / News / Uganda’s She Cranes beat Malawi for first CWG win Uganda’s She Cranes beat Malawi for first CWG win Ugandan netballers celebrate. PHOTO via @waihue Uganda 🇺🇬 54 Malawi 🇲🇼 52 
Gold Coast, Australia | THE INDEPENDENT | Captain Peace Proscovia was the star with 35 goals as Uganda’s netballers snatched a first win in their tough Group B at the Gold Coast 2018 Commonwealth Games on Saturday. 
Ugandan netballers, competing at their first Commonwealth Games, recovered from Thursday’s opening day 64-51 defeat by New Zealand to tame Malawi 54-52 in a thrilling game. Uganda’s She Cranes are African champions while Malawi are the continent’s top ranked team in the world, one ahead of Proscovia’s team at 6th. 
In the second straight game, the tall and agile Proscovia remained a model of consistency under the Uganda hoop while receiving solid support from goal attack Rachel Nanyonga. The defeated Malawians were left in tears at the final whistle. A few of the Malawi #netball players in tears and declined interviews as they made their way through the mixzone after the 54-52 points defeat to Uganda. Tough loss. They were level with minutes to go in the final quarter. #GC2018 #commgames2018 #bbcgoldcoast 
— Ade Adedoyin (@ade_adedoyin) April 7, 2018 
Nanyonga grabbed 19 goals as Uganda got off to an early lead, 18-10 in first quarter, 30-25 in quarter 2, 42-39 in quarter 3 before holding on to win 54-52 after a late surge by Malawi. 
No 7-ranked Uganda return to action on Sunday against another fancied side, England ranked 3, on Sunday. 
Uganda is represented at the Commonwealth Games by teams in netball, swimming, rugby, squash, athletics, shooting, badminton, boxing and cycling. 
Athletics remains Uganda’s main hope for medals, and the tone of the country’s performance at this Commonwealth Games will be set in the event’s day-one when Joshua Cheptegei runs in the 5000m final on Sunday. 
Cheptegei came close to gold at the World Championships 10,000m race last year, edged by Mo Farah in a tough final. He skipped his favourite 5000m race due to fatigue at the World Championships, and the schedule this time makes him a firm bet to do the double. 
The double was achieved by Moses Kipsiro in Delhi in 2010, winning the 5000 and 10,000m gold. 
Uganda has taken part in every Games since 1954 (with exception of 1978) and has this time sent a team of 69 to compete. 
SATURDAY RESULTS ▶ netball Uganda 54 Malawi 52 ▶ swimming Women 50m butterfly Meya 27th of 29 ▶ boxing #bantam Dlamini(SWZ) 4 Nasir 1 ▶ weightlifting # Kasuubo 9th out of 12 
▶ 1pm #welterW Bwogi v Clair (MRI) 
**** 
Team Uganda 
Athletics: Ayikoru Scovia, Leni Shida, Nanziri Emily, Nakaayi Halima, Nannyondo Winnie, Ajok Dorcus, Juliet Chekwel, Chelangat Mercyline, Chesang Stella, Lalam Josephine, Adome Pius, Alli Ngaimoko, Opiny Leonard, Musagala Ronald, Chemutai Albert, Kipyeko Phillip, Cheptegei Joshua, Thomas Ayeko, Toroitich Timothy, Kiplimo Jacob, Chesakit Alex, Chemonges Robert, Mutai Munyo Solomon. 
Badminton: Bangi Shamim Bridget, Nakiyemba Aisha, Kasirye Brian, Ekiring Edwin 
Boxing: Bwogi Musa, Kiiza Joshua, Muwonge Latibu, Nasir Bashir, Simbwa Regarn 
Cycling: Kagimu Charles, Sekanga Vienna 
Netball team: Lilian Ajio, Irene Akello, Kizza Betty, Birungi Conchepta, Nanyonga Florence, Nakabuye Hadijah, Nakacwa Halima, Achan Jesca, Nampungu Joan, Procovia Peace, Nanyonga Racheal, Meme Ruth, Nanfuka Stella, Oyella Stella, Namuwaya Muhayimina 
Rugby team: Ijongat James, Kasiita Eric, Kasito Adrian, Kermundu Kevin, Kisiga Timonty, Manano Achaji, Odongo Marvin, Ogena Pius, Oketayot Byron, Okia Solomon, Okorach Michael, Wokorach Phillip, Sebuliba Kayiwa, Ruhweza-Ayera Desire, Magowu Ivan, Muwumba Timothy Mudoola, Jadwong Joseph, Ofoyrwoth Aaron 
Squash: Rukunya Ivan, Kawooya Michael 
Swimming : Meya Avice (women) and Tibatemwa Ekirikubinza Elisha (men) 
Weightlifting: Irene Kasubo, Kalidi Batuusa, Julius Ssekitoleko, Ssempereza Hakim 
Table Tennis: Nyaika Ronald (men), Nambozo Halima (women) 
Shooting: Mungoma Cleopatra