Saturday April 7 2018 Big weekend of derbies City manager Guardiola and Man Utd boss Jose Mourinho renew their rivalry at the Etihad Stadium today. AGENCIES PHOTO In Summary Soccer. Everton takes on Liverpool and Manchester City know this could be their decisive tie in the EPL against Manchester United, Real hosts Atletico at Santiago Bernabeu before Chelsea wraps up the big weekend of derbies by taking West Ham at Stamford Bridge. Advertisement By AGENCIES 
AC Milan’s Serie A meeting with Inter Milan at San Siro kicked off a fascinating week of derbies - one in which Manchester City can clinch the Premier League title.Milan have lost just once in their last five games and hosted an Inter side that has won back-to-back victories on Wednesday night. That game ended in a barren stalemate.Today’s English Premier League action could see the race for the league title settled early if City can beat Manchester United at the Etihad Stadium. 
New records Pep Guardiola’s side will break the record previously set by United for the earliest title-winning date. In 2001, United won the title on April 14. City will beat that record by seven days if they win on today.Before that clash in Manchester, Everton host Liverpool in the lunchtime kick-off at Goodison Park.Liverpool are aiming for a third consecutive win with Jurgen Klopp’s side two points behind United. The Kop will buoyed by their stunning 3-1 victory over Man City. But like Klopp has learnt, the Premier League is always a different cup of tea. With Egyptian forward Mo Salah a big doubt for the clash after he limped off against City midweek in the Champions League, Everton could serve up an enthralling encounter that could result into a shock win for a side that will feature former England captain and striker Wayne Rooney. 
Sunday special The action continues tomorrow afternoon. Real Madrid, fresh from their 3-0 Champions League quarter-final first leg victory over Juventus, host Atletico Madrid at Santiago Bernabeu.Zinedine Zidane’s side are four points behind Atletico in La Liga, with Diego Simeone’s team nine points adrift of league leaders Barcelona.Attention will turn away from the clash in Spain when Chelsea face West Ham at Stamford Bridge at 4.30pm.The Blues will attempt to respond positively after the 3-1 defeat by Tottenham last weekend. The Hammers will try to record back-to-back league victories for the first time this season after beating Southampton. advertisement