Kagame reshuffles Cabinet, longest serving Minister Musoni fired after SEX SCANDAL   
Rwanda President Paul Kagame has reshuffled cabinet. The reshuffle which was announced on Friday saw a number of change. Minister James Musoni, one of the longest-serving ministers has been dropped from cabinet. Musoni served as a cabinet minister since 2005. 
Musoni was Minister of Infrastructure. He also served as Minister of Finance and economic planning, and Local government among others. - Advertisement - 
Read: Minister James Musoni accused impregnating another man’s wife, wrecks entire family 
The president also moved Minister Claver Gatete from Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning to the Ministry of Infrastructure. Gatete has been replaced by Dr Uzziel Ndagijimana who has been the Minister of State in charge of Planning. Gatete, a previous central bank head credited with overseeing a period of relative monetary stability, was named minister for infrastructure. 
The economy has been rebuilt with a focus on technology, mining, tourism and agriculture following the 1994 genocide of 800,000 ethnic Tutsis and politically moderate Hutus. Growth rates have averaged 5-6 percent over the last decade. This year, the International Monetary Fund expects its economy to expand by 7.2 percent. 
Meanwhile, Doctor Uwera Claudine was also appointed State Minister for Planning at Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning. While Rugigana Evariste is the new Director General in the office of the Prime Minister while Kagarama Doreen is Permanent Secretary also in the Prime Minister’s Office. Alphonsine Mirembe a long serving official at Prime Minister’s Office was appointed Permanent Secretary at Ministry in Presidency. 
In another move, Kagame named Yvonne Manzi Makolo as chief executive of the national carrier RwandAir.Makolo has been the Deputy Chief Executive Officer of RwandAir replacing Colonel Chance Ndagano who have acting CEO since April last year. The airline sacked its previous head John Mirenge in April last year - Advertisement -