April 7, 2018 Guests at the CYE Summit 
Uganda youths should invest in the tourism industry in a bid to tap into the multibillion shilling sector, the Executive Director of Uganda Tourism Board Steven Asiimwe has said. Members of the Panel at the CYE Summit 
Speaking at a two-day summit organized by the Chamber of Young Entrepreneurs (CYE) Mr. Asiimwe noted that the industry revenue has grown from US$350 million to about US$1.4 billion over the past two years, and urged the youth to tap into the vast opportunities the tourism sector has on offer. 
A good example, Mr. Asiimwe said, would be the introduction of Air, Bed and Breakfast (AB&B) accommodations, a common practice in the West where private homes accommodate tourists at a fee. He noted that Kampala currently has only 9000 rooms, a factor that can contribute to the AB&B initiative. 
Further, according to Mr. Asiimwe, with 10 national parks and a friendly culture, Uganda is a tourist hotspot that needs improved services that can be provided by tour guides and travel agencies. 
Addressing participants at the first CYE Summit at the Kampala Serena Hotel Victoria Hall held under the theme ‘Inspiring a Sustainable Entrepreneurship Culture’, the organisation’s President Edward Musiime enumerated some of the hardships many start-up businesses endure and urged the youth to come up with ‘intellectual capital’. “Nobody ever got ready by waiting, you only get ready by starting,” he said, quoting the famous words of John. C. Maxwell. H 
Giving an example of his struggle over a Shs20 million loan, Musiime, a journalist-turned-entrepreneur added: “Passion is the greatest answer to pain.” (R-L) Trade minister Amelia Kyambadde, fashionista Beryl and former UIA boss Dr. Maggie Kigozi 
In her speech Amelia Kyamabadde, the Minister of trade and Co-operatives, commended the CYE initiative, explaining the need for youths to understand the dynamics in the business world. Ricky Rapa Thompson, the initiator of Safe Boda Uganda 
The summit was attended by among others diplomats and sueccesful youths like Ricky Rapa Thompson, the initiator of Safe Boda Uganda and fashionista Anita Beryl of Beryl Quotore. 
“I didn’t make money for three years until that one dress that gave me my breakthrough,” Beryl said. Michael Niyitegeka, Country manager-ICDL Africa addresses the guests 
Michael Niyitegeka, Country manager-ICDL Africa highlighted a few key elements necessary for an effective and efficient work force like trust and talent, and urged the youth to embrace them. 
Meanwhile, CYE plans to reach out to the youths and equip them with the right skills to master and maneuver the risks and dangers within the business world by opening branches throughout the country. 
The organization also plans to expand its outreach by having some of its members enrolling for entrepreneurship programmes that will be taught beginning with Victoria University, one of the sponsors of the summit. 
Other companies and institutions that sponsored the summit included DFCU Bank, Roofings Limited, Uganda Communications Commission (UCC) and NTV. Post Views: 85