Love or obsession: Are Bebe Cool’s online attacks over Zuena justified? Bryan White (Red cap) looking puzzled after being booed by audience. PHOTO BY BRIAN MUGENYI 
Every city has got its own unique beauty and its superstars. You just need to find it and adopt it or else- you’re chased away. That’s what Kampala city socialite Brian Kirumira aka Bryan White failed to put in his notebook and finger tips as he made his way to Masaka on April 2. 
Since October last year, Uganda has been awash with updates about Bryan White. Some have even branded him ‘The God father of money’ in Uganda today. 
On Easter Monday the socialite posted on social media “Enroute to Masaka” with a hashtag #BryanWhiteFoudation. Indeed it was not long before he set foot in Masaka town. 
Being an overcrowded area, Nyendo trading center was fully-packed like a beehive swamped with bees by the time the ‘money man’ arrived. 
Nevertheless hawkers, boda boda riders and onlookers lined alongside the road waiting to see the man of the moment. 
However, Bryan White had his planned destination that is Masaka’s haven for relaxation Nabugabo Sand Beach, so he couldn’t make intended stop overs despite the mob. The Masaka Municipality Mayor Godfrey Kayemba, Mr. Achilles Mawanda and the district chairperson Jude Mbabaali rejected Bryan White’s visit in Masaka. 
Bryan White, accompanied by his security guards made his way into the Nabugabo premises with noise from revelers. “The money man has reached, let’s go,” one reveler uttered amidst all the noise. 
Bryan White dashed out of his car, as fast as lightening, quickly making his way to the VIP section. However, on reaching there, the front seats were already occupied by Masaka’s tycoons led by Richard Kimera, Hajat Sarah Kiyimba of Brovad Hotel, Godfrey Kayemba, the Masaka Municipality Mayor and Lwasa Emmanuel, of Club Tarven Kick, who had placards on their tables with the words; Masaka Whites Buddu Yaffe Gezaako walala loosely translated to mean, “Buddu county is ours, try elsewhere”. 
Immediately when he saw the placards, Bryan White’s formerly smiley face turned rude and vexed and when he was given a chance to speak, his promises of giving out free 800 boda bodas to Masaka youths were unwelcomed by the audience. 
This sparked a harsh exchange of words and eventually he was chased away by the Masaka District speaker Achilles Mawanda. Before, Bryan White thought he was the chief guest of the day. But to his dismay, it was Charles Olim aka Sipapa, of Sipapa Entertainment who had taken that slot already. Mayor Kayemba, Mr Achilles Mawanda (Speaker Masaka District) and Richard Kimera on Masaka Whites table 
However, Bryan White had not yet given up. He chased for an equalizer from the ordinary section after losing in the VIP Section. 
But it just was not his day. When he stood at the podium at 5:25pm to speak again in the ordinary space, in the audience Sipapa once again. Clad in a white T-shirt and black jeans, Sipapa was busy and leisurely splashing out money from the bags in his black van up in the air paralyzing the audience. 
Sipapa is reportedly not on good terms with Bryan White and that’s why Sipapa was trying to give out money to provoke Bryan White. 
At the podium, CBS FM’s Abu Kawenja was forced to give Bryan White a microphone but he could not communicate to the audience effectively as many turned their attention to Sipapa’s money which again annoyed the former sparking words of confrontation against Sipapa. 
“The money he ‘Sipapa’ is splashing is out of evil acts. You should not accept it,” Bryan White said. Unfortunately no one could help listen to his submissions. 
Bryan White later left the podium accompanied by singer King Micheal in annoyance saying: “I came here to show you my support especially youths but some goons here have sabotaged my arrangements, so I am disappointed and I can’t give you anything,” he said before storming in his car and let off. Leave a comment 