Teaching science for specific farming In Summary The science taught in schools and institutions of higher learning should be directed to our development needs and overcoming challenges such as pests and diseases that destroy farmers’ crops including traditional food crops like bananas, cassava and potatoes. Our scientists’ knowledge and skills should contribute to increased agricultural production and reduction of malnutrition which annually costs Uganda US $899 million (The Cost of Hunger Report 2013). Advertisement By Michael J. Ssali 
Last week our local media carried screaming headlines about the expected salary increase for teachers, health workers, judiciary officers, and the police in the next financial year. The media has clarified that for teachers the salary increase was mainly to benefit science teachers. 
Your columnist has some reservations on whether science teachers should be paid more than non-science teachers but the government’s decision to pay higher salaries to science teachers should be an indication of its commitment to produce more scientists and to use science and technology as the engine for the country’s economic development. 
We have academic institutions such as Mbarara University of Science and Technology (MUST), Busitema University, Makerere University, Gulu University, Kyambogo University, and several other institutions that turn out graduates with various science skills. 
We also have an entire ministry for Science and Technology. Our president is a farmer renowned for his strong commitment to the application of science and innovation in Uganda’s agricultural transformation. 
However, farmers lose their crops to drought and pests in a country with so much commitment to the advancement of science and technology. The country’s agricultural production is hampered by frequent droughts despite its vast water endowments. 
Our population is growing fast and the food insecurity threat is real. The science taught in schools and institutions of higher learning should be directed to our development needs and overcoming challenges such as pests and diseases that destroy farmers’ crops including traditional food crops like bananas, cassava and potatoes. 
Our scientists’ knowledge and skills should contribute to increased agricultural production and reduction of malnutrition which annually costs Uganda US $899 million (The Cost of Hunger Report 2013). 
The big paradox is that despite our apparent strong commitment to science and technology there is evident lack of trust in science at the highest level of government. 
— ssalimichaelj@gmail.com