Why aren’t criminals flushed out, named and punished? Part I Prof George W. Kanyeihamba Advertisement By Prof George W. Kanyeihamba 
Ugandans, we are becoming a laughing stock among other nations. President Museveni personally revealed that there are criminal elements in the police. On another occasion, he said that the police contained mafias. As loyal and patriotic citizens, we believe in our President’s utterances. Ugandans expect fireworks and heads to roll. Disappointingly, however, thereafter nothing happens.On another occasion, former Inspector General of Police Kale Kayihura cried out that some of the police under him are dangerous criminals. He too did not name, later on punish them or take any steps to comfort the public that those criminal elements no longer work in the police.Ugandans anticipated that new IGP Martins Okoth-Ochola would act decisively and clean the mess. So far there is no evidence that he is acting or behaving differently from his predecessor. On February 18, Sunday Monitor quoted former Deputy IGP Julius Odwe saying “how long will Museveni watch the police collapse before acting”. He suggested that a career police officer would be best to lead the police. This may be so, but such a police officer must be competent.Currently, the most memorable act IGP Ochola has done is to reverse Gen Kayihura’s decision to transfer police officers from one department to another, or one station to another in a kind of musical chair game of changing seats. Some Ugandans, I’m sure, believe that Gen Kayihura had reasons for making those transfers and wish to know why IGP Ochola has reversed his predecessor’s decisions.At least Gen Kayihura used to hold regular press conferences to criticise and defend his Force. Some of his statements were not convincing, but at least he tried. He made no secret that his loyalty was to the NRM and its leadership. So far IGP Ochola has been conspicuously silent as where he stands as a professional police chief. As one of the most important persons in the fight against crime, Ugandans need to be assured about where he stands in the tasks of fighting crime, keeping law and order. His deputy has wisely kept in the background. His knowledge and professionalism are purely military. We need to know whether he is going to train in police work. The ministers responsible for police and national security are distinguished gallant army officers. They have both said very little about what the new changes mean.Ugandans have witnessed the changes but they have not known what it all means. Few believe that there will be any significant changes in the way Uganda and its people are protected, especially as lower ranks of the police are still poorly facilitated and continue exhibiting low morale. They are not happy that some of those who used to neglect police work, mainly to pursue personal monetary interests, and were transferred by Gen Kayihura have been returned by IGP Ochola. Mr President, Ugandans wish to see radical changes for better in Uganda police. They have not seen any reason to think that the situation has changed since IGP Ochola took over. When public officials, including the police, commit offences against citizens or the State, the public expects the culprits to be punished and made to compensate those they have wronged. They should be suspended or interdicted immediately pending further enquiries and if found guilty they should be booted out of their offices. That is what is done in other countries. Mr President, Ugandans are asking why we do not do the same in Uganda. 
Prof Kanyeihamba is a retired Supreme Court judge. gwkany@yahoo.com