Sunday April 8 2018 Crested Cranes in decisive hunt for history at Lugogo Saviour? Captain Nassuna (L) will not only be required to find the goals but also to help with the dirty work of stopping Kenya as she did in Machakos. PHOto: MAKHTUM MUZIRANSA In Summary Women soccer. For Uganda, a win will be much more than just a result but a confidence booster for a side that will meet these regional giants again in the May 12-20 Cecafa event in Rwanda. Advertisement By MAKHTUM MUZIRANSA 
KAMPALA. 
A positive cloud hovers over the nation today as Crested Cranes are tasked with overturning a 1-0 deficit over Kenya in the first round of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers.The winner of this tie faces Equatorial Guinea in the second round for a place in the finals due November 17 – December 1 in Ghana.Coach Faridah Bulega’s side defended resolutely but a little lapse in concentration gifted Kenya’s right-back Lillian Adera a goal from almost halfway the pitch.Today’s mission will be different; Crested Cranes must find goals but also retain the last balance to keep an explosive Kenyan side at bay. Over the last two days, the training sessions in Njeru Technical Centre have hinged on quick transitions from defence and attack.“I promise the country that we will win (today),” Bulega told Sunday Monitor.“We played with commitment and we were unfortunate (in Machakos) but this time, the final whistle will tell a different story. I do not want to let out much but we are focused on winning comfortably.” 
Physically stretched Her opposite number David Ouma believes Uganda will be stretched physically after doing the 723km journey from Kampala to Machakos and back on road. “Currently Kenya should be among the top eight African sides and we need to show this. I think Uganda will have a change in tactical orientation.“They needed to get a good result here and play a physical game but they may not be able to operate on the same physical level given that these are back to back games. Therefore, we must build on our game momentum,” Ouma said. 
Today - SECOND LEG, STARTIMES STADIUM Uganda vs. Kenya, 4pm - Lugogo*First Leg ended 1-0 for KenyaEntrance Fees: Shs5,000 and Shs10,000VIP: Shs20,000