Why calls to summon Okello to Cranes should be resisted KCCA FC's Allan Okello. FILE PHOTO In Summary In a rush to find a solution. More than anything, the clamour to have the youngster fast-tracked into the senior national football team speaks to an astonishing desperation reigning supreme. It also underpins the deeply held notion that Cranes fans would rather wish away their problems. Advertisement By Robert Madoi 
Last week, this column shone a spotlight on a common thread that runs through the Cranes’ performances on the pitch. The functional football the team plays, presents those to whose care it entrusted, with a fiendish puzzle they never really look like they are solving. Built with Milutin ‘Micho’ Sredojevic’s iron grip, The Cranes shone in patches, drifting inexorably towards being an ultra defensive unit. Driven not by aesthetics but a desire for results, the Serbian coach seemed untroubled by the hostility in the stands. Eventually, the mood brightened substantially and Cranes fans were caught in a shiver of excitement after Micho ended Uganda’s Afcon hoodoo. The Serbian’s reputation as a straitjacket tactician and pragmatism were summarily viewed less as impediments and more as an unlikely cult text. This didn’t stop him from choosing Orlando Pirates over the Cranes were suitors courted him en masse.So, out went Micho and in came Sébastien Desabre with noticeably different priorities. The promise of free flowing football was particularly attractive and plausible if anything because it came from as unimpeachable a voice as there was. Desabre had waved a magic wand and gotten Ismailia playing champagne football in the Egyptian topflight. The Cranes, though, is a different type of animal that more often than not turns up misdiagnosis of a chronic ailment. 
Show stopping performanceAfter a string of flat performances, Cranes fans have been desperate for a schemer to extricate their team from a grotesque embrace. Many think that schemer should be Allan Okello after watching the KCCA FC teenager deliver a show-stopping performance in national colours. Okello was sensational between the lines in Uganda’s 5-1 win over South Sudan during a Africa U20 Cup of Nations qualifier. His cultured left foot set up two goals and round shot a worldie after selling a couple of feints. More than anything, the clamour to have the youngster fast-tracked into the senior national football team speaks to an astonishing desperation reigning supreme. It also underpins the deeply held notion that Cranes fans would rather wish away their problems. The weight of The Cranes jersey is bound to be a brooding presence on Okello’s shoulders because he hasn’t been conditioned to deal with its encumbrances. Moving seamlessly from the U20 to U23 age grades and finally senior ranks, has endeared itself as a time-honoured approach to success. It certainly helps beneficiaries learn the ropes of international football. Okello shouldn’t be denied the approach’s obvious benefits. He may carry remarkable abilities matched by few others, but it would be a devastatingly foolhardy move to promote Okello to The Cranes. After keeping a bemused silence from it all, Okello’s club manager, Mike Mutebi, came out this past week and made it categorically clear that the youngster is not ready to venture into the deep end of the swimming pool. The reason why the possibility of Okello turning on the style at club and U20 levels isn’t vanishingly small is because he is playing alongside his peers. At KCCA FC, he was joined in the first team by his contemporaries Julius Poloto, Mustafa Kizza and Lawrence Bukenya to mention but three. Are the Cranes ready to make wholesale changes to ensure that Ugandan football’s new kid on the block beds in? Would it be wise to make those changes at this juncture anyway? Your guess is as good as mine!