Sunday April 8 2018 KCCA applauds NMG on Stay in Your Lane drive Kampala Capital City Authority executive director, Ms Jennifer Musisi, has applauded Nation Media Group (NMG) Uganda platforms for exposing errant drivers on the road in their “Stay in your Lane” campaign. FILE PHOTO In Summary Kampala Capital City Authority executive director, Ms Jennifer Musisi, has applauded Nation Media Group (NMG) Uganda platforms for exposing errant drivers on the road in their “Stay in your Lane” campaign. Mr Bichachi requested the public to continue participating by sending photographs and videos showing the offence, time and place it was committed to editorial@ug.nationmedia.com or WhatsApp 0776769334. Advertisement By Patience Ahimbisibwe 
Kampala Capital City Authority executive director, Ms Jennifer Musisi, has applauded Nation Media Group (NMG) Uganda platforms for exposing errant drivers on the road in their “Stay in your Lane” campaign. “We note with appreciation that the NMG is running a campaign in which it circulates photographs and videos of errant road users in a bid to restrain indiscipline on our roads. We have noted the drivers and motorcyclists have begun to comply with the traffic rules and regulations and are more cautious on road usage,” Ms Musisi observed in an April 3 letter to the Monitor Publications (MPL) Editor in Chief. 
She added: “We applaud your effort which will go a long way in protecting the infrastructure and green belts in the city and also reduce on the accidents caused by non-compliance to traffic guidelines by uncouth motorists.” For about three weeks now, errant road users have been published in Daily Monitor newspaper, NTV and online platforms to ensure traffic rules are followed by all road users. KFM and Dembe FM also report the vehicles’ registration numbers, the type of the offence and where the violation was committed. Mr Charles Bichachi, the MPL Executive Editor, commended the public for their support and asked them to continue engaging the platforms to ensure every road user is safe. “We have received overwhelming public support. We are confident that the naming and shaming of these errant drivers will make a difference. Some corporate companies have reprimanded their drivers and Police has issued fines to their officers who break traffic rule..,” he said. 
APPEAL Mr Bichachi requested the public to continue participating by sending photographs and videos showing the offence, time and place it was committed to editorial@ug.nationmedia.com or WhatsApp 0776769334. advertisement