Sunday April 8 2018 Match that natural hair to your style If a dress has intricate detail or bold colours, keep your natural hair style simple. Courtesy photo. In Summary In style. African hair has always been beautifully intriguing. There is a certain mystery about it. It could be the unique texture, the unconventional look, or simply the fact that it stands out. Nowadays, more and more African women are going back to their roots, write Hassan Ssentongo and Jenni Richard. Advertisement By Hassan Ssentongo and Jenni Richard 
African hair is a statement in itself, and if you are going out for a night of glitz and glam, all you need to do is find the perfect hairstyle that will complement the dress you are wearing.Our hairstyles are reflections of the African history and culture. African women take pride in embodying their traditions in whatever form. For instance, African women all around the world make a powerful statement when they wear head wraps. Some prefer wearing braids as this style goes all the way back to their ancestral beginnings. In any case, you do not need to make any dramatic changes with your natural hair if you have a formal event coming up. To help you out, here are hairstyle ideas to match your formal dresses. 
Let the dress do the talking If you have chosen a dress that features intricate details or a dress with attention-grabbing colours, stick to a simple hairstyle. Simple does not have to look plain though. It can still be a work of art without taking away the attention from your dress. A classic updo always adds an elegant touch to any look. If that is too simple for you, why not add curls or rolls? Nonetheless, keep the look clean and polished as this will complement your overall look better. When it comes to the clean look, short hair offers many options too. 
High neckline, high hair A rule of thumb to follow is to always wear high hair if the neckline of your dress is high too. That means you have to go for updos to further accentuate the neckline of the dress. For this one, it doesn’t have to be as polished and put together, you can leave strands of curled hair on the sides of your face if you prefer.On the other hand, if your dress has a low cut on the back or front, by all means, keep your tresses loose. Given the kinky nature of our hair, it can prove hard to grow it to great lengths, so one could opt for hair extensions or weaves. There is no problem with that as long as you know how to properly care for your hair and weaves, too. So if you have taken the time to maintain your long locks, wearing a low cut dress and flaunting your hair will be the perfect combo. 
Get loud Now if you like simple dresses and put all the attention to the hairstyle, then this is the best time to add some oomph to your overall look. The beautiful thing about African hair is that it has an effortless edgy quality to it that you can always take advantage of. For instance if you plan to wear a black tube dress to a formal event, you can simply wear a statement necklace and top off the look with a curly hair Mohawk. If you want a more sophisticated look, you can go for French braid buns or halo braids instead. Either way, you will look fantastic!Natural African hair may be dry, frizzy and sometimes unmanageable, but you have to love it for what it is. It is unique, unapologetic, and unconventionally beautiful. It embodies its history and culture. All it takes is some know-how to work your natural locks and it will not be a daily battle anymore. Have fun at the many formal events you will be attending and let your hair be your crowning glory. 
Simple options for natural hair Make an afro with straws If you would like to style your afro using simple drinking straws, it’s easy enough to do. It’s also a budget-friendly and lightweight method to use. This article describes how to style your afro the straw way.Wash or wet hair. Damp hair works best. Closely cropped sidesGet as many plastic drinking straws as you think you need for your hair length.Pinned up fro hawkCut the straws in half if you have shorter hair. If you have long hair, you may need to use the entire straw. Short and chicSeparate your hair into sections, so none gets in the way while you are working.Take a small piece of hair, and begin rolling a straw like you would a curler. It is very difficult to keep it on there, so you may need to use a bobby pin to pin it. 
Continue until entire head is in straw curlers.Wait for hair to dry. you can speed up the process with a hair dryer.Take straws out. Curls should be very tight, and spiralled.Comb them out to create an afro, or leave it curly.Style and spray with hair spray. -www.wikihow.com