Sunday April 8 2018 KCCA, Buganda land board fight over city cemetery The land on which the cemetery sits belongs to Buganda Kingdom but it was leased to Kampala City Council (KCC), the predecessor of KCCA in 1963 for 49 years, but KCCA later took up its management in 2012 when the city administration was rebranded. FILE photo In Summary Daily Monitor has seen some of the land certificates that were issued by BLB to people, giving them leeway to occupy the land surrounding the cemetery. For instance, Edward Segirinya, one of the affected persons acquired a certificate of land ownership from BLB on July 26 2013. Samuel Serunkuuma, the KCCA Acting Deputy Executive Director said that council last week resolved that the matter be probed to assess the manner in which the demolition was carried out. Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA KAMPALA. Buganda Land Board (BLB) and Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) are currently at loggerheads over the management of a city cemetery in Lusaze, Rubaga Division. A cemetery or graveyard is a place where the remains of dead people are buried. Lusaze cemetery is currently being managed by KCCA. The clash was triggered by last month’s demolitions of several houses around the cemetery by KCCA law enforcement officers, claiming that they were illegally built. The land on which the cemetery sits belongs to Buganda Kingdom but it was leased to Kampala City Council (KCC), the predecessor of KCCA in 1963 for 49 years, but KCCA later took up its management in 2012 when the city administration was rebranded. However, the demolition has since raised the storm among the affected residents who now want compensation from KCCA for razing down their houses yet they had interests on the contested land. In a March 19 letter, a copy of which Daily Monitor has seen, Mr Simon Kaboggoza, the acting manager BLB wrote to the Rubaga Division Town Clerk, protesting the demolition. Mr Kaboggoza contends that in a meeting held on December 22 last year between KCCA executive director, Jennifer Musisi, Prince David Kintu Wassajja and their respective delegations, it was agreed that KCCA should limit its interest on the cemetery which is free from occupation by the neighboring occupants. He further stresses that although KCCA’s lease on the land expired in 2012, they haven’t renewed it. “…it has taken us by surprise that a team from KCCA in Rubaga Division has proceeded to grade the ground without any prior notice to the landlord, and in total disregard to the resolution of the meeting between the heads of both institutions,” reads in part the letter. He asked KCCA to desist from impromptu demolitions, adding that if such operations are to be done, sufficient notice should be given. Abubaker Kawalya, the Rubaga KCCA male councillor, who is also the chairperson of the physical planning committee, told Daily Monitor that at least 10 families were affected during the demolition hence they are now stranded. He noted that the city authority risks losing a lot of money if at all the affected families seek court redress. “The problem is that these operations are made without involving other leaders yet this is key. For instance, as members of the physical planning, we are never informed of any scheduled demolitions in the city,” he said. Daily Monitor has seen some of the land certificates that were issued by BLB to people, giving them leeway to occupy the land surrounding the cemetery. For instance, Edward Segirinya, one of the affected persons acquired a certificate of land ownership from BLB on July 26 2013. Samuel Serunkuuma, the KCCA Acting Deputy Executive Director said that council last week resolved that the matter be probed to assess the manner in which the demolition was carried out. “The committees of legal affairs and physical planning have been given two weeks to come up with a report on the demolitions in Lusaze. For the meantime, we have halted the demolitions until they come up with a report on the same,” he said. angwomoya@ug.nationmedia.com