  Pupil hangs self over school fees The child was reportedly upset by the father’s response and hanged himself at the weekend. In Summary "l am told when the boy approached his father and told him that he had been chased from school over outstanding fees balance, the father instead threw insults at the boy and he committed suicide,” Geoffrey Ameny, LC3 chairperson of Alito Sub-county. Account. The boy, who had been sent home to bring the fees balance, was reportedly upset by his father’s response. Advertisement By PATRICK EBONG 
Kole. A boy sent home by the school management to pick his outstanding school dues last Friday has committed suicide by hanging.Reports indicate that the boy took his life after his father reportedly said he did not have the money to enable him return to school on Monday. 
The Primary Five boy, a pupil at Acankado Primary School and son to one of the prominent local businessmen in Alito Sub-county, hanged himself using a rope and his body was found dangling on a tree at their home.However, his father, Mr Albino Okani, who runs a hardware shop at Anekapiri market, when approached by his son according to some accounts, reportedly claimed he did not have money. 
The child was reportedly upset by the father’s response and hanged himself at the weekend. The LC3 chairperson of Alito Sub-county, Mr Geoffrey Ameny, confirmed the incident to Daily Monitor yesterday. 
Mr Ameny said the deceased was among the pupils who were sent home on Friday evening by the school authorities to bring fees balance and other unfulfilled requirements.He said the boy’s father had separated with his mother last year. “Mr Okani separated with his wife, who is the mother of the boy. He claimed that his wife hired gunmen who went to his home last year to kill him, but the boy was staying with the father,” the LC3 boss said. 
Father reports caseMr Ameny said after the death, the father reported the matter to Alito Police Post, adding that police removed the body from the tree and handed it to the family for burial. When contacted, the officer-in-charge of the police post, when contacted confirmed the incident but referred this reporter to the North Kyoga region police spokesperson, Mr David Ongom Mudong. 
“It’s true there is a pupil who committed suicide in Alito because the father had refused to pay his school fees balance...,” Mr Ongom said.We could not speak to the boy’s father by press time yesterday. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com