Monday April 9 2018 KCCA set to rid the city of floods The purpose of constructing and maintaining all these drainage channels is to sort out the big problem of flooding in Kampala and its suburbs. FILE PHOTO In Summary What is KCCA doing about the problem? It is desilting the drainages as well as senstising residents on the dangers of dumping in them. On building in wetlands, KCCA will not approve any development in such areas. KCCA is also appealing to residents to be more vigilant and report to KCCA on any wetland encroacher on WhatsApp number 0794274444. Advertisement By Robert Kalumba 
It its inception in 2011, Kampala Capital City Authority found 40 community drainage channels constructed in the five divisions of Kampala. KCCA has so far maintained more than 160km of drainage channels both constructed and earthened. We are talking of constructed community channels in areas such as Katwe, Kibuye, Nabisaalu, Kiwunya, Kibuli, Kawempe-Ttula, Kazo-Angola, Kinawataka, Lubiigi and Nakivubo draniange channels, among others. 
The purpose of constructing and maintaining all these drainage channels is to sort out the big problem of flooding in Kampala and its suburbs. One would then ask, why does Kampala continue to experience flooding given KCCA’s investment in the drainage system? Apart from the fact that we are currently experiencing high intensity downpour across the country, the cause of flooding in Kampala can be attributed to two issues: 
First, the misuse of the drainage channels by residents, who use them for dumping garbage, including solid waste. A spot-check on some of the city drainage channels would leave you baffled! For instance, why would anyone in their right mind dump children’s pampers, banana peelings, plastic bottles, condoms and in extreme cases, foetuses, etc, in drainage channel? Sadly, these are the sort of the items that block the drainage system when it rains hence obstructing water rain water flowing. 
But since water finds its own level, it spills over the drainage banks and the neighbouring, areas leading to flooding in the Kampala. Ideally, the drainage channels are meant to lead rain water flow to the low lying areas such as wetlands or swamps. However, due to drainage blockages, the water smooth flow is interfered with hence flooding ensues. 
Secondly, construction in wetlands and swamps has been the biggest contributor of flooding in Kampala. For instance, from the 1950s until early 1990s, areas around Kitante Primary School was a huge wetland. The were no structures there apart from the school and a few other structures. Construction in the area picked pace during in the 1990s with company offices, residences, etc, mushrooming around the school. The area that was once a swamp/wetland suddenly had double storeyed buildings. The Kitante wetland was gone. 
So where does the rain water that used to collect in Kitante swamp go now? The answer is, it now finding its way onto our roads, residences, etc. 
What is KCCA doing about the problem? It is desilting the drainages as well as senstising residents on the dangers of dumping in them. On building in wetlands, KCCA will not approve any development in such areas. KCCA is also appealing to residents to be more vigilant and report to KCCA on any wetland encroacher on WhatsApp number 0794274444. 
Robert Kalumba,