Bad governance, not capital is cause of failure of SMEs Innocent Ddamulira In Summary Questions to ask. Every business owner should ask themselves a few simple questions: Does the business have any controls/policies in place to direct what it decides? Are the decisions being made in the interest of the business? Does the business maintain proper books of account? Is the business compliant with nation’s laws and regulations? Does the business implement the directions of its board with integrity? Advertisement By Innocent Ddamulira 
I was pleasantly privileged to attend and deliberate on governance issues for Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) at the 7th Annual Director’s and Company Secretaries conference on March 14 in Kampala. The conference undoubtedly made a good case for employing corporate governance practices for SME’s in order to spur the much desired and sustainable business growth. 
From a synergy of well-grounded governance professionals, it was inevitable to underscore the value of governance with quite a departure from the narrow academic approach that examines the proceeds from the process by which an organisation is directed or controlled. 
The need to strengthen SMEs in Uganda is crucial because of its perpendicular link the country’s economic growth and development agenda. While Uganda has been rated by Approved Index as number one among the most entrepreneurial countries in the world, inversely several studies, including that conducted by Makerere University Business School, have put Uganda’s rate of failure in businesses at more than 50 per cent in three years. Other researches narrow this further down by finding that one third of SMEs started in Uganda do not see their first birthday. 
The survival of SMEs has a direct link to Uganda’s attainment of her Vision 2040. The National Planning Authority (NPA) has articulated that to achieve the that vision, the entire country must be transformed into a competitive upper middle income with per capita income of $9,500 with a real GDP growth rate of more than 8.2 per cent per annum that would eventually translate into a total GDP of about $580.5 billion. 
Realisation of all these good statistics would take the input of individual successful SMEs to complete the arithmetic that would feed into the final GDP figure. 
Uganda’s problem (as mirrored from the skills of her people) has thus shifted, it is no longer the failure to access startup capital, especially in light of the growing financial inclusion, but rather the failure to have governance approaches in place to ensure that businesses that start, often times with borrowed capital, can survive. 
This problem is not one that the government can address such as capital requirements where it has been seen to encourage individuals to form groups or Saccos in order to access capital offered by government, including sometimes cash handouts sometimes. Rather, there must be individual effort by every business owner/owners to ensuring that proper governance structures are in place to spur growth, continuity and sustainability of the business. 
The governance problem is worse with family-owned businesses yet about 90 per cent businesses are family-owned according to Forbes. Family businesses contribute up to 50 per cent of the entire US Gross National Product and Uganda may not be exceptional. 
With a family business, it is even harder to get rid of your partner, who contributed to the failure. Often times, a family business will desire to trust a family member with managing the accounts of the business even if such a member does not possess the requisite skills for the job. 
Eventually, due to lack of skills, minimum accountability is practiced with a high likelihood of failure to keep proper accounts. There is no doubt that all businesses should practice good corporate governance, including family businesses. 
But what exactly should a Ugandan business owner do to ensure survival of his/her business and safeguard the often borrowed capital? Very simple governance practices must be put in place. I say very simple because the governance practices proposed for a multi-national corporation cannot equal to practices that should be implemented by Shs5 million capital limited Liability Company. 
So generally, every business owner should ask themselves a few simple questions: Does the business have any controls/policies in place to direct what it decides? Are the decisions being made in the interest of the business? Does the business maintain proper books of account? Is the business compliant with nation’s laws and regulations? Does the business implement the directions of its board with integrity? 
Do the board members have the required competence to make decisions that can strategically lead to business continuity? Has the business defined its risks and agreed on its risk appetite? Questions are endless because governance should be a mindset! 
If any business with integrity is able to answer these questions in the affirmative, it will most likely remain strong as others are being placed under administration or receivership. 
Mr Ddamulira is a lawyer and corporate governance trainer trained by International Finance Corporation. ddamulira.law@gmail.com advertisement