Let’s not politicise the need for Metropolitan Planning Authority Peter Mulira In Summary Explanation. A metropolitan planning plan is a plan for managing change in the urban regions as well as their surrounding areas and involves all aspects of physical planning including land use designations, transportation including roads and public transit, water and sewage infrastructure, parks and open space of the entire metropolitan area. Advertisement By Peter Mulira 
The proposal by the government to introduce a Metropolitan Planning Authority for Kampala has met with stiff opposition from sections of our political leadership, which sees it as a political ploy by the NRM government to wrestle political dominance of Kampala from the opposition. 
The proposal does not include the idea of extending the boundaries of Kampala Capital City as such but aims at bringing what is known as the urban sprawl into a coordinated and integrated planning system. 
Presently planning duties are located in diverse centres namely the districts, townships, Kampala Capital City Authority not to mention the National Planning Authority. We do not have, for example, a coordinated plan on on spatial planning or public transit in the metropolitan area. 
A metropolitan planning plan is a plan for managing change in the urban regions as well as their surrounding areas and involves all aspects of physical planning including land use designations, transportation including roads and public transit, water and sewage infrastructure, parks and open space of the entire metropolitan area. 
In this regard, a metropolitan area means the city conurbation, which is a significant economic, political and cultural centre for a country and an important hub for regional or international connections for commerce and communications. 
The Global Lab on Metropolitan Strategic Planning, which met in Dar es Salaam in November 2014, at which 21 one cities were represented excluding Kampala, brought together city representatives to think outside their boundary and to share experiences on managing rapid urban expansion through metropolitan planning. 
One participant advised that “As a city grows rapidly, it becomes essential to ensure strong local tax base for municipal government, to adjust governance arrangements, to enable city-wide metropolitan planning and management…” 
For his part, the host of the gathering, who was the Mayor of Dar es Salaam, explained that for urban planning to be effective, cities had to think of people and the communities that live in the surrounding districts, who will be impacted by the economy, social activities and the environment of the entire region. 
Kampala Town was started by Asian traders who settled around what is now known as Old Kamala along the Nakivubo River in the 1880s. Later Nakasero was developed as a residential area for Europeans. 
After World War II, Kololo was opened up as an upscale residential area and the city centre served as commercial, residential and office area. The town was built on 38 square miles leased to the central government by Buganda at a peppercorn rent of Shs1 per year. Surrounding it was an area known as Kibuga, which was the capital of the Kabaka of Buganda. 
In 1962, the Kibuga became Mengo Municipality, with its own mayor and which developed independent of Kampala. Mengo Municipality included the townships of Nakawa, Kawempe and Mengo itself. Kampala’s services did not extend to this area and when the Buganda government was abolished in 1967, nothing meaningful was put in place of Mengo Municipality and uncontrolled developments became the order of the day. 
To make matter worse, the boundaries of Kampala City were greatly expanded without much thought or resources. The result was the disorganised city we see today, which was at one time regarded as one of the cleanest towns in Africa. 
To correct this, we need an integrated common plan and strategy to deal with such challenges as spatial zoning, road network, transport, regeneration of the urban centres, water and sewage infrastructure, public transit, and open space planning, among others. This will be the work of the Metropolitan Planning Authority and we should not politicise the effort. 
Mr Mulira is a lawyer. peter.mulira89@gmail.com