Custodian Alitho’s scoring prowess lights up Fufa Drum tourney Superman? Alitho (L) scored twice for Bugisu over the weekend. PHOto BY john batanudde Advertisement By DENIS BBOSA 
KAMPALA. 
There isn’t a better sight in football than a goalkeeper playing outfield and scoring for fun.Vipers and Bugisu versatile player, James Alitho should be the ‘Cristiano Ronaldo’ of Ugandan goalkeepers when it comes to goal-scoring. The lanky custodian, who has progressively replaced injured first choice Ismail Watenga at title chasing Vipers, dropped the gloves for a striking role as Bugisu beat Sebei 3-1 in the Fufa Drum tourney on Saturday - netting twice.From the man who regularly scored for Mbale side CRO in the Fufa Big League before switching to Vipers, to the goalkeeper trying to upstage clubmate Watenga and Cranes indispensable first choice Denis Onyango, Alitho might be wasted in goal.He had scored before against Teso for his total goal tally to stand at three in three matches yet he had conceded thrice as a goalkeeper in the opening game against Busoga. He was also awarded the man of the match accolade after the Sebei heroics on Saturday. Bugisu coach Geoffrey ‘Toldo’ Awach is now contemplating keeping the striking force of Alitho and Vipers team mate Milton Karisa intact as they chase for honours.Elsewhere, Kampala showed title intent by bulldozing Rwenzori 5-0 in a one-sided match at Lugogo. Tony Odur, Arthur Kiggundu, Willy Kavuma Dan ‘Muzeyi’ Sserunkuma and Brian Nkuubi netted for Wasswa Bbosa’s side to make it nine points out of three matches. Uganda Cranes defender Isaac Isinde inspired Busoga to a third straight win with a late goal against hard fighting Teso in Bukedea. Allan Kayiwa scored the solitary goal against Lango as Buganda finally got to winning ways whereas goals by Raphael Komakech and Ivan Kabore granted Karamoja 2-1 victory over Ankole. The reverse fixtures in the tourney will be played this weekend. 
Saturday results 
(Man of the Match-Ronald Musana of Bukedi)Acholi 1-0 Kigezi(Man of the Match-Fred Okot of Acholi)Lango 0-1 Buganda(Man of the Match-Allan Okello of Lango)West Nile 0-0 Tooro(Man of the Match –Albert Mugisa of Tooro)Karamoja 2-1 Ankole(Man of the Match-Korobe Ivan of Karamoja)Teso 0-1 Busoga(Man of the Match –Isaac Isinde of Busoga)Kampala 5-0 Rwenzori(Man of the Match- Tony Odour of Kampala)Sebei 1-3 Bugisu(Man of the Match- Alitho James of Bugisu) advertisement