Monday April 9 2018 Luckless Crested Cranes hit dead end in African Qualifier No Lady luck. Striker Nalukenge could not find a way past Kenya. PHOto By ISMAIL KEZAALA In Summary Women soccer. Having lost their previous two games against Kenya by 4-0 scorelines, the Crested Cranes showed progress in holding them to a goalless draw despite not progressing. Advertisement By Elvis Senono 
KAMPALA. 
The Crested Cranes made their final substitution shortly before the 80th minute mark yesterday when attacker Phiona Nabbumba came on for Tracy Akiror in their first round Africa Women’s Cup of Nations qualifier against Kenya.The national women’s team was in desperate need of a goal having lost the first leg 1-0 last Wednesday.Unfortunately for the Faridah Bulega-coached side, they still needed another substitute. One that they could not get in even if they were granted another opportunity. That substitute was experience. Yet to many that attended the game at the StarTimes Stadium in Lugogo, experience is exactly what the Crested Cranes lacked to make it to the next level where Equatorial Guinea lay in wait. 
Fine saves Instead they bowed out with a goalless draw following a string of fine saves from Kenyan goalkeeper Maureen Shimuli.“We thank the federation for the efforts to have us compete at this level but we need more experience, Bulega stated in her post-match remarks.“I thank my team. They have put up a good performance and they are still young. I believe they will give us results in years to come.” While the Crested Cranes rode their luck at times, they created several decent goal scoring opportunities. Juliet Nalukenge got a couple failing to beat the onrushing Kenyan goalkeeper inside 10 minutes while she also had a shot tipped over.Hasifah Nassuna got in on the act, too, shooting narrowly wide twice while she forced another fine stop from a free-kick.“The She Cranes have made progress,” said Kenyan captain Wendy Achieng while consoling her rivals. 
Women’s Cup qualifiers