Monday April 9 2018 Leaders clash over wetland Illegal activities. A grader excavates at Lubenge, the Luweero, Nakasongola trans-border wetland recently. PHOTO BY DAN WANDERA In Summary Depleted. The Lubenge trans-border wetland was once a catchment area for the Lugogo River before the advent of companies and private developers. Advertisement By DAN WANDERA 
NAKASONGOLA. 
The grossly depleted Nakasongola- Luweero trans-border wetland has once again caused controversy between leaders of the two neighbouring districts.Leaders in Nakasongola accuse their counterparts in Luweero of giving away large chunks of land under Nakasongola to private individuals and investment companies.Developers have reportedly diverted water channels and dug trenches leading to suffocation of the original communities of more than 30,000 residents, who used to eke a living from the more than 10 square mile wetland. “We instituted an ad hoc committee to investigate and report back to the district council the alleged misuse of the wetland through encroachment on areas supposed to be under Nakasongola District. Our findings call for halting of all activities and re-surveying of the wetland boundaries by government to ensure protection of the wetland,” Mr Samuel Butagasa Mwesekezi, the chairperson of the natural resources committee, said during an interview last Friday.Authorities in Nakasongola now want all land titles issued on land under the Lubenge wetland system cancelled and have all investment companies and private developers compelled to restore the wetland ecology system which they claim has contributed to the harsh climate conditions in many parts of the district.The findings reveal possible illegal parcelling out and subdivision of the wetland where several new plots have been allocated to individuals although the individuals failed to provide documentary evidence by way of land lease offers and land titles on land at Busebwe Village. Golden Crop Company claims to have bought 403 acres of land on Block 720, Plot 19 under Nabutaka Estate. Mr Moses Kaloke, a manager at Golden Crop Company in an interview with the Daily Monitor claimed that his bosses have all documents regarding ownership of the disputed piece of land. “We are also aware about the need to plant trees as way of restoring the environment. The drainage channels we have dug are within our land,” Mr Kaloke claimed in an interview.The Luweero District chairperson, Mr Ronald Ndawula, said he is not aware of the new developments on the trans-border wetland. “I have not been informed about activities on land at Lubenge... I have information that this particular wetland is now a centre of controversy with many individuals claiming ownership of land in the area,” Mr Ndawula said in an interview. advertisement