She started avoiding the mirror Nafha Maani Ebrahimi In Summary She was always obsessed with mirrors, all sizes and shapes, anywhere and everywhere, and in their absence any reflecting item could do! We met many years later, at a party. We were introduced by a mutual friend, because there was no way I could have recognised her, and if not introduced, she would have preferred to remain anonymous. The woman in front of me looked no way like the one I knew years ago. Advertisement By Nafha Maani Ebrahimi 
She was always obsessed with mirrors, all sizes and shapes, anywhere and everywhere, and in their absence any reflecting item could do! A shiny elevator interior, reflecting glass windows, even reflections on a water surface was good enough for her to stare at checking out her looks. None in our group of friends blamed her, because she had features to die for, thick arc-shaped eyebrows, deep brown almond eyes with thick eyelashes, well-balanced lips and nose and a radiant smile.We met many years later, at a party. We were introduced by a mutual friend, because there was no way I could have recognised her, and if not introduced, she would have preferred to remain anonymous. The woman in front of me looked no way like the one I knew years ago. She had maintained her attractive figure, but her facial features were altered beyond recognition. Anyone who has been catching even a little bit of plastic surgery news, would have noticed that there was nothing natural left on her face, a nose job, cheek bones lifted, eyebrows shaved and tattooed. I tried not to stare at her now disfigured features, but I could not help it. Finally, she made a quick turn and started talking to another guest leaving me with many questions, the most prominent being: why would such a pretty woman do this to herself? Did she get tired of her looks and was looking for a change? Did someone convince her that she could look better with some additional help? Or was it a few wrinkles here and there that caused panic? The above questions are posed these days over and again, every time we see people pushing the limits of what plastic surgery can do. A surgery that is meant to restore damages caused by accidents, burns and medical conditions, has now taken a totally new dimension, it is also a fully-fledged business too. Backed by social media and thousands of adverts, more women and now men, are undergoing the surgeon’s knife. This is in the name of the so called beauty. Some do not make it out of the clinic that they walked in healthy and with a free will. During an interview on one of the Middle Eastern TV shows, a group of women who were supporting plastic surgery, argued with a woman who preferred to keep her natural looks, at the end of the programme she was left defeated and accused of being negligent to the way she looked. Back in the party, while my friend was leaving, she passed by a huge mirror at the entrance, she never stopped to look at herself! advertisement