Cheeye: The sentimental father we will always miss The late Teddy Sseezi Cheeye. FILE PHOTO In Summary Cheeye, a veteran investigative journalist, lost his life in a road accident when a motorcycle rider knocked him dead near Shell fuel station in Nakawa, in Kampala on March 1. The next call he received was to inform him that his father had been involved in a motor accident and had passed on. He rushed to the accident scene. Fast forward the police truck helped to carry his father to the mortuary. To Arnold, his father was always a mentor, a colleague and friend. From the prison visits, Lorna saw a man who was pained but would not show it, all because he did not want his family to keep hope alive. His wife broke down seeing her husband that once smartly dressed in a yellow uniform every other day. Advertisement By EDGAR R. BATTE 
The news of her father’s passing was as horrible as a bad dream. For a second, Lorna Sseezi, wished her father had broken a limb but not breathed his last. That morning, the late Teddy Sseezi Cheeye had hugged his daughter on her way out of home as she rushed to work. As the two parted ways at the gate, he asked her to call him when she got to work.“I regret having forgotten to call him,” she recalls. Her mother called her, and from the broken shaky voice on the other side of the line, she knew it was bad news. Cheeye, a veteran investigative journalist, lost his life in a road accident when a motorcycle rider knocked him dead near Shell fuel station in Nakawa, in Kampala on March 1. 
His passing Seconds ticked into minutes, his body lay covered in blood on the tarmac. Moments before, at lunch time, Arnold Sseezi had sent his father two messages in regard to their meeting. “We were supposed to meet at 3pm. Actually, he was on his way to meet me. The last two text messages that I sent him that went unanswered got me thinking that something was wrong,” Arnold recounts.The next call he received was to inform him that his father had been involved in a motor accident and had passed on. He rushed to the accident scene. Fast forward the police truck helped to carry his father to the mortuary. “It was shocking even as I carried his body. It seemed like a dream,” Arnold recollects. As the police pick-up truck pulled through, Lorna watched the body of her father lay on the dirty steel with the rain falling heavily. Memories of him started flooding through her mind, the most recent one being her birthday celebration. 
A love so warm “Before we went to bed the night before, he told me about the busy schedule he had the next day,” Cheeye’s wife, Annet Kairaba, recounts. He apologised afore to her, telling her that he would not wake her up since he would be leaving earlier. Nonetheless, after preparing for the day, he woke her up to say goodbye reminded her how much he loved and cared for her. “There was something warm about him as a husband and friend. He cared and proved it to me,” Kairaba adds. Lorna describes her father as the epitome of love, especially towards the time he died. “We got to see a side of him that not many people had ever chanced upon. Prison had changed him. He had the time to reflect and became a much centred person. I think my father went through self re-actualisation right before he died. He wanted to be surrounded by people he cared about,” she explains.To Laura, her father was the most loving, and hardworking. “Before he was imprisoned, he was a provider. He was always on time on school visitation day and would basically get us everything that we wanted but after prison, he changed. He was more expressive and thoughtful. He was prayerful which made him more loving. He would talk to us every morning and tell us about his plan for the day and then ask about ours. He would ask us to call him when we got to work,” Laura narrates. He hugged and pecked his children every single day before they left home. Laura, Arnold, Laura and their mother will remember their father for always reminding them how much he loved them and how special they were to him.Every Sunday, they shared lunch where they had light talk on interesting things and challenges in their lives. The economist in him was never lost and Arnold recalls being several times handed economic journals and World Bank reports to read and appreciate the economic trends in the world. 
The confidante He was strict but reasonable. To Arnold, his father was always a mentor, a colleague and friend. He recalls an experience of being expelled from school. “I was in Senior Four when I was suspended for escaping to the nightclub. I knew he would punish me but when I told him about why I had been suspended, the mood was different. He told me to talk to him whenever I wanted to go out. He gave me a driver and some pocket money and told me to go to Club Silk. He told me to tell him if I wanted to go to places,” he recounts. 
Memories. Cheeye with his son Arnold back in the day. COURTESY PHOTO He explained to his son that by giving him money and a driver, he would always know that he was safe. Arnold was taken aback. It felt like he was hearing it from a big brother. “From that time on, I would confide in him and also openly speak to him. He encouraged me to tell me if I found a girlfriend. Even in prison, I went visiting him but one time I was simply unsettled and he must have realised something was on my mind. The next time I visited him, he shared with me some money and told me to pay my debts. I was touched because he was in prison. I felt he was a true friend,” Arnold explains.When he was released from prison, father and son shared more. Cheeye did not know, or did not pay attention to social media and it was his son that opened his eyes and mind to the tractions therein. 
Stoic From the prison visits, Lorna saw a man who was pained but would not show it, all because he did not want his family to keep hope alive. His wife broke down seeing her husband that once smartly dressed in a yellow uniform every other day.“Seeing my mother cry was terrible. My father would encourage us to take heart and he tried to hide how much it affected him. He would say he was fine but the prison wardens told us how he had sleepless nights and spent time pacing the room and how his health was deteriorating. He would never tell us these things,” Lorna recollects. 
Peacemaker When he left prison, he still made visits to share necessities with inmates. In the evenings, he enjoyed his walks during which he would stop and greet people, young and old. “He also sought to make peace with those he had hurt as a journalist,” Arnold says, adding that this formed part of conversations at the burial. To him, his father said and did things in his last days that he could have interpreted as a man preparing his son to take after him. 
Very caring “He was concerned about everything that we did. He was interested in knowing our whereabouts and would calculate the time to a place and would make a call to find out if we had arrived safely. When I was at work, he would call twice or thrice just to find out how my day and work was,” Annet Kairaba, wife. advertisement