Namasagali : ‘‘I declare the school dead’’ -Prof. Balunywa   
By Prof. Waswa Balunywa 
As I arrived at Namasagali, on the morning of 30th March 2018, I was shocked by the very bad conditions of the [once mighty] school. - Advertisement - 
However, despite the dilapidated structures and declining academic standards, the school still stands, though not with its former glory and dignity. 
I decided in my head that no amount of effort would ever restore the glory of this college. The college had to reinvent itself and take a new format. This was for 2 simple reasons 
The school had a distinct mode of operation from other schools in the country. It taught the virtues of manners, respect, tolerance, time-keeping, eye contact, posture, listening and general etiquette. 
Discipline was an essential part of the school system, Fr. Damian Grimes, the first head teacher, took a no-nonsense approach towards indecent behaviour. He set up a judicial system which comprised a chief justice, deputy chief justice and judges 
You required Father Grimes disciples to bring these values to continue the school. There are few such people but I doubt they have time to go to Namasagali The financial investment required was so huge that nobody would come up with the kind of money required. My fears were confirmed when during our old boys/girls meeting in the course of the day, the plans to restore the college infrastructure was estimated at a whooping US $ 25 million. Arriving at the school, the site of the school was pathetic. The Headmaster’s office which house the student’s court and staff room had been burnt down but left to stand depicting an abandoned place. 
The student’s dormitory had no roof! Many other buildings where in a high a state of disrepair. Thanks to the headmaster there is semblance of life at the school but I declare the school dead in my personal view. You could not fail to notice the enthusiasm of the old boys and girls during the meeting. There was a video conference via skype with Father Grimes, the old boys and gals where ecstatic when Fr. Grimes appeared on the screen. Grimes was loved and adored by his students, I loved him too for his contributions to education During the meeting thanks to Prof. Katwaalo and his group, plans to restore the school were introduced and adopted. The plans require over 90 billion shillings but the proposal could only rise Shs 5 billion in the first five years! 
If I headed this restoration team I would look for another innovation. Do not hate me for critizing the wonderful work done by the team that thought through the restoration of the school, but I imagine with this kind of money needed and no proposal on how to find the money it was only natural that an alternative had to be found. What came to my mind is putting up a few buildings for ‘A’ level, working hard to make sure that these students end up in a university. 
These buildings a Rebecca Kadaga building, Hon. Isaac Musumba building, Patrick Bitature, Hon. Moses Kizige. Poor me may not be able to do one. But I believe there are many others. Doing a few buildings for about 200 students and focusing on about 200 students in a new culture may be motivating for parents to bring their kids to school. 
Grimes legacy needs to be frozen because it cannot be continued. I am appealing to those with interest and money to build a tourist camping site on the riverbanks with the permission with the school and put Grimes statue at the site. The old boys and girls would then do a pilgrim to Namasagali once a year or as they choose. As the fortunes of the university at Namasagali change, the school destiny may also change hinged on those of the university. Watch the Space