Monday April 9 2018 Kibuli bus accident: Students out of danger – administration A total of 126 students went for the tour in two buses and the one that got the accident, according to Hajj Katantazi had 69 students on board. Courtesy photo In Summary The bus was towed to Sanga Police Station. Rwizi Region Traffic Officer, Mr Justin Opus, said they are yet to establish what exactly caused the accident. Advertisement By JOSEPH KIGGUNDU 
KAMPALA. The 23 students who sustained injuries in a Saturday morning accident at Lake Mburo National Park, Kiruhura District are out of danger, the Kibuli SS administration has said.Contrary to some media reports that the students were in critical condition, Hajj Siraj Katantazi, a career advisor at Kibuli SS said the victims suffered minor injuries and all are in good condition. 
“It was not a serious accident as some sections of the media have reported. Some 23 students got superficial bruises on their faces, arms and legs .We rushed them to Mbarara hospital and after a few hours, they were all discharged and now back at school,” he said in an interview on Monday. 
The accident happened when a bus the students were travelling in swerved off the road near Nshara Gate, Nsanga Sub-County as they were leaving the park where they had gone for an academic tour. A total of 126 students went for the tour in two buses and the one that got the accident, according to Hajj Katantazi had 69 students on board. 
He said the school managed to hire another bus belonging to Global Coaches which transported the students back to Kampala. 
He blamed the accident on the slippery road which resulted from heavy rains which had poured the previous night. 
“The road is under rehabilitation and we believe our driver was not conversant with the topography of the area,” he said.The bus was towed to Sanga Police Station. 
Rwizi Regional Traffic Officer, Mr Justin Opus, said they are yet to establish what exactly caused the accident. 
jkiggundu@ug.nationmedia.com