118 government jobs up for grabs 118 government jobs are up for grabs. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary A total of 118 civil servants in different ministries, government agencies and departments are set to be promoted to senior positions according to an internal advert. The Office of the President and Ministry of Foreign Affairs will each fill two positions whereas there is one position available in Education Service Commission, Ministry of Water, and Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. In an April 3, circular to the Solicitor General, all Permanent Secretaries, Kampala Capital City Authority executive director, chief administrative officers and town clerks, Dr Mbabazi states that civil servants who qualify for the internally advertised positions must apply online by May 2. Advertisement By MISAIRI THEMBO KAHUNGU 
A total of 118 civil servants in different ministries, government agencies and departments are set to be promoted to senior positions according to an internal advert seen by this newspaper. 
The advert signed by Dr John Mbabazi, the Secretary to Public Service Commission, has listed the available promotional jobs in the Office of the President, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Justices and Constitutional Affairs, Ministry of Water and Environment, Ministry of Agriculture, Ministry of Public Service, Ministry of Water and Environment, and Ministry of Foreign Affairs. 
Civil servants in Education Service Commission will also benefit from the promotions that will be effected with the new financial year in July.The Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development will take the lion’s share of these promotions with 44 vacancies, followed by Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries with 27, Ministry of Public Service with 25 and Judicial Service Commission with eight. 
The Office of the President and Ministry of Foreign Affairs will each fill two positions whereas there is one position available in Education Service Commission, Ministry of Water, and Ministry of Justice and Constitutional Affairs. Among the top positions up for grabs across the scale are; Commissioners, Assistant Commissioners, Directors, Principal State Attorneys, Communication Officers and Accounts. 
Vacant positions For instance, there are two vacant positions for Commissioner for Ethics Policy and Standards; and Commissioner for Religious Affairs under the Directorate of Ethics and Integrity in the Office of the President.The ministry of Agriculture will fill the positions of Director Fisheries resources, Commissioner for Aquaculture management and development; Commissioner for Fisheries resource management and development and Commissioner for animal health. 
In an April 3, circular to the Solicitor General, all Permanent Secretaries, Kampala Capital City Authority executive director, chief administrative officers and town clerks, Dr Mbabazi states that civil servants who qualify for the internally advertised positions must apply online by May 2. 
He also said the online application should be accompanied by letters of recommendation from supervisors of the interested officers and their appraisal reports for the last three years. “The online application (via jobline on www.psc.go.ug ) should be accompanied by a scanned recommendation on each officer. Hard copies of up-to-date Staff Appraisal Reports for the last three years...,” the circular reads in part. advertisement