Monday April 9 2018 Officers beat suspect to death in police cell An eye witness, who was also in the cell, said the two officers undressed and beat the deceased for two full hours in the police cell until he breathed his last. FILE PHOTO In Summary The same police officer told this reporter that the OC in Charge of Nsazi police post is in custody and as the investigations continue. The Kampala Metropolitan Police Spokesperson, Luke Owoyesigyire, confirmed the death of the suspect but said it was mob justice. Advertisement By Jessica Sabano 
Two police officers attached to Nsazi police post in Mukono District have allegedly beaten a suspect to death. 
Stephen Bamunankole who was arrested on suspicion of stealing a phone, was allegedly beaten to death by Innocent Token a police officer and Andrew Kayira a crime preventer at the police post. 
This prompted the angry residents to storm the post and razed it down. 
An eye witness, who was also in the cell, said the two officers undressed and beat the deceased for two full hours in the police cell until he breathed his last. 
"A complainant identified as Magret Nalwanda came at the police post and reported a theft case pinning the deceased to have stolen her phone worth Shs50, 000," an eye witness said. According to the eye witness, the two officers Token and Kayira then went and arrested Bamunankole from his home, dragged him to police cell and beat him from 3:00pm to 5:00pm until he died.On realizing that Bamunankole was dead, Kayira took off and Token released all the suspects who were in cell and also took off with two guns. 
A police officer in Mukono who preferred anonymity said the two guns were later recovered in a bush near the police post. 
The same police officer told this reporter that the OC in Charge of Nsazi police post is in custody and as the investigations continue. 
The Kampala Metropolitan Police Spokesperson, Luke Owoyesigyire, confirmed the death of the suspect but said it was mob justice. 
"What I can confirm now is that it was mob justice and the two officers had just gone to rescue the deceased at scene of crime unfortunately he died at police," Mr Owoyesigyire said. advertisement