LC5 bosses make U-turn on OWC Coordinator of Operation Wealth Creation (OWC), Caleb Akandwanaho alias Gen Salim Saleh. FILE PHOTO In Summary District chairpersons across the country are now backing the Operation Wealth Creation (OWC) programme, years after bashing it for being militaristic. Since the inception of the government programme in 2013, district leaders have had difficulties in dealing with soldiers coordinating the activities, accusing them of being arrogant and high-handed. Advertisement By Franklin Draku & Risdel Kasasira 
District chairpersons across the country are now backing the Operation Wealth Creation (OWC) programme, years after bashing it for being militaristic.Since the inception of the government programme in 2013, district leaders have had difficulties in dealing with soldiers coordinating the activities, accusing them of being arrogant and high-handed. However, during a meeting with the programme supervisors last Friday in Nakaseke District, the leaders pledged to support the programme after the officials promised to rectify the issues they had earlier on raised. “We need district-tailored support through providing inputs that are area-specific since each district has its own peculiar challenges... We should also rejuvenate cooperatives to enable farmers have mass production and access soft credit,” Mr Joseph Luzige, the Mityana chairperson, also the taskforce leader for the district chairpersons, said.The Uganda Local Government Association president and Lwengo chairperson, Mr George Mutabazi, said they have the capacity to influence uptake of commercial agriculture through mobilising the population.In a statement issued at the weekend by OWC spokesperson, Maj Tabaro Kiconco, Gen Salim Saleh, the coordinator of the OWC, called for the establishment of regional logistics hubs and electronic or e-vouchers to help curb supply of low quality inputs and false claims. 
Logistics hub The regional hubs and bulking will minimise post-harvest losses and help farmers have collective bargaining power. According to the system, these hubs will serve as one-stop centre for all logistics. These include certified seeds, pesticides and market linkages.Gen Saleh said the e-voucher system and the allocation of inputs to farmers can be made through an online system from logistical hubs or approved suppliers within their regions.“The concept concentrates efforts of all sector players in one place and consequently lowers the costs involved in agricultural production,” the statement said.Gen Saleh also said the regional hubs will help control price fluctuations and eliminate ghost suppliers.Lt Gen Charles Angina, the OWC deputy chief coordinator, said for the hubs to succeed, there is need to institute committees from village to regional level for accountability and ownership by farmers. He said the logistics hub concept has been proven as the best means of empowering subsistence farmers and defining their relations in the value chain process. The State minister for Agriculture, Mr Christopher Kibazanga, said the economy must embrace the logistics hub concept for it to grow. 
CHALLENGE In January, Gen Salim Saleh listed 25 challenges, among them; low quality and late delivery of inputs, land degradation and weak farmer groups as the major challenges to OWC. advertisement