April 9, 2018 Uganda Baati - brainchild-BM 10m Cheque Handover 
Uganda Baati, the country’s leading manufacturer and supplier of quality roofing sheets and steel building materials has announced a sponsorship of Shs10 million, towards the organisation of the second edition of Innovation Series by Brainchild Burson-Marsteller which is slated for April 26, 2018. While handing over the cheque, Mr. George Arodi, the Business Head, Uganda Baati said, the company is pleased to sponsor the event because of its importance in driving the spirit of innovation in Uganda and in particular, the vibrant real estate sector. “As an innovative company in the building and roofing materials industry, we are happy to be part of this thought leadership event because it provides a perfect platform to showcase and inform Ugandans about new and affordable roofing products and solutions they can embrace and apply, when building their homes,” he said at the press briefing at the company’s offices in Kampala. Uganda Baati is a member of the Safal Group of companies, the largest steel roofing company in Africa with a presence in 12 countries and 36 operations. The company is a pioneer in the manufacturing and supply of roofing materials and have the widest range of roofing products in aluminium-zinc coated and pre-painted material. In East Africa, Uganda Baati, was the first company to set up an ultra-modern Continuous Galvanizing line. In Uganda, Uganda Baati, was the first to introduce innovations like the Aluminium-Zinc coating technology which aids in the long lasting of iron sheets. “The milestones, demonstrate that we are passionate about innovation and giving customers appropriate products,” Mr. Arodi noted, adding that innovation in business is crucial in an economy because it makes it possible for companies to develop and market products or services that are a direct response to the needs of customers in the market. “We do believe that the investment Shs 10 million we are making today will help spur the spirit of innovation in Uganda and harness the delivery of new and affordable solutions to Ugandans with real estate needs.” Mr. Walter Wafula, the Business Unit Head–PR, welcomed and commended Uganda Baati for the support to the event. “Uganda Baati’s decision to support the Innovation Series by brainchild Burson-Marsteller, demonstrates their passion for innovation and commitment to promote real estate ownership in Uganda through innovative and affordable ways.” “Your sponsorship will help us in ensuring we host a successful event that will provide a great experience and learning conference for all guests who will attend,” he added. The Second Edition of Innovation Series will take place at the iconic Pearl of Africa Hotel and will be held under the theme Making Real Estate Ownership a Reality: Practical Innovations for Uganda. Tickets to the event are available at Total Service Stations in Kampala, Post Views: 60