IGP Ochola merges several Police Units, Directorates   
Speaking to Parliamentary Appointments Committee recently, the Inspector General of Police Martin Okoth Ochola said Uganda police died the day Katumba Wamala left the force in 2005. Well looks like Mr. Ochola is out to change the image of police. Latest, the IGP has made major changes in the force. 
In a message dated March 18th, IGP Ochola directed that the directorate of Oil and Gas be merged with the directorate of Counter Terrorism. “Pursuant to section 6(1) (a) of the Police Act, I am ordering the following force reorganization,” reads in part the message. - Advertisement - 
A March 18 statement shows that Ochola has merged the directorate of Oil and Gas with that of Counter Terrorism. The merger has been named a “Division of Oil and Gas”. Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) Agapitus Ecotu is now operations officer for the Oil and Gas division. While Assistant IGP Abasi Byakagaba has been named the director Counter Terrorism. Flying Squad unit has been reverted to the Directorate of Criminal Investigation and Crime Intelligence, headed by AIGP Grace Akullo. 
The move to put Flying Squad under the supervision of CID comes after the unit has been entangled in multiple accuses, including extortion. The Flying Squad unit is headed by ACP Herbert Muhangi. Previously headed by Nixon Agasirwe, (who is currently in jail) Special Investigations Unit will also be supervised by CID. Other units that were reverted to CID are Criminal Case File Tracking Task Force (CCTF), and Surveillance and Special Operations. 
Territorial Police Command (Region and District/Division) are now under the Directorate of Operations. The directorate of Operations will also supervise the specialized units (ASTU, Canine, Police Air wing, Railway Police, Environmental Protection Police, Marine, Agricultural Police, Mineral Protection Police, Presidential Protection Group). 
Cyber Crime Unit was also reverted to the Directorate of Forensic Services. According to the message, the move should lead to formation of a Division of Oil and Gas and the Commissioner in charge of Human Resource Management is instructed to fast track the changes with the ministry of Public Serivce. - Advertisement -