Seven days in Entebbe Movie released   
Entebbe international airport is yet to be the top tourist destination In Uganda says Uganda Tourism board. This assumption is based on recent release of “7 days in Entebbe” movie that recounts the story of counter- terrorist hostage – rescue operation at Entebbe in July 1976. 
“The movie highlights the Entebbe International Airport where the raid was conducted. We are yet to set as the top tourist destination. What is negative can be transformed into a positive. We feel we can attract tourists to come visit that place. By coming, we shall be attracting foreign exchange” says Uganda Tourism Board Steven Asiimwe“7 Days in Entebbe”, stars Daniel Bruhl-Captain America:Civl War, Rush; Rosamund Pike-Hostiles, Doom; Nonso Anozie-Zoo_tv, Game of Thrones_tv and Eddie Marsan-Ray Donovan_tv, Atomic Blonde. - Advertisement - 
This is based on a true story that took place in 1976-there have also been several other movies about the incident. A plane traveling from Tel Aviv to Paris was highjacked by terrorists demanding the release of Palestinians in prison for the 200 hostages aboard the plane. Daniel and Rosamund play Germans working with the terrorists that decide if they take the plane to a different country-say, maybe Entebbe, Africa-the Israelis might have a change of heart in their negotiating policies. Nonso plays Idi Amin and Eddie plays a Israeli official wanting to send in Israeli commandos to take care of business. 
The movie starts with the group of modern dancers practicing for a performance and the final rescue attempt has them jumping back and forth with the dancers and the fighting. The only connection with the dancers was that one of the Israeli commandos was dating one of the dancers. The movie is a little slow until it gets to the 7th day-the rescue. It’s rated “PG-13” for violence, thematic material, drug use, smoking and language and has a running time of 1 hour & 46 minutes. 
Movies portraying scenes in Uganda create a major impact in contributing to tourism. With the latest movies being Black panther and 7 days in Entebbe, another movie title “The world is ending Tomorrow” describing the holistic incident that occurred in 2000 when Kibwetere burnt down a multitude of believers, will be released soon