Justine Bagyenda faces 20 years in Jail over Money laundering   
Member of Parliament for Budadiri County West in Sironko District Hon. Nandala Mafabi has launched campaign that seeks to charge and prosecute former Executive Directive in charge of Supervision at Bank of Uganda, Justine Bagyenda over money laundering. 
The MP wants Parliament to summon Bagyenda and the banks she was allegedly dealing with in money laundering. The calls follows recent revelations that Ugx. 20bn was transacted through Bagyenda’s personal bank accounts in some commercial banks in Uganda over the last couple of years. “Bagyenda has been the head of Anti-Money Laundering committee and the law we passed, stated that whoever participates in money laundering has to be imprisoned for 20 years. That is why Bagyenda should have been in Luzira by now, and the law stipulates that the money she stole should be returned.” Mafabi told journalists at parliament on Monday. - Advertisement - 
He added: We are going to carryout investigations and we are going to deal with those banks because they have been doing illegal things with Bagyenda. “They have been doing illegal things with Bagyenda. Actually those banks should be closed because they have been involved in money laundering,” he said. DTB and Barclays have since issued apologies to Bagyenda over her account details leaking and they say the employees who leaked the accounts are going to face punitive actions. 
Mafabi observed that the said banks should be closed because they have been involved in money laundering. Bagyenda, who earns about Ugx.35m per month, also ran a bank account in Global Trust Bank where she had made corporate deposits of Ugx. 2.4bn and $658,288 on the dollar account in the same financial institution. Bagyenda last flew to South Africa reportedly to handover as chairperson of Africa Banking Supervision Committee. She is expected to return early this week. Meanwhile, sources at BoU told Newz Post that she is expected to find a hostile environment at his former place of work where she is nolonger wanted. 
Meanwhile unconfirmed sources say Bagyenda has called all managing directors of commercial banks in Uganda ‘ ‘ are you among those dancing on my Grave?’’ adding that some people don’t appreciate after ‘doing several good things for them’ Reports also indicate, while she has no work to do at BoU following her termination, she reports for ‘work’ at 7:00 and leaves late in the evening.