April 9, 2018 Refursbished palace of the archbishop of Uganda 
The Archbishop’s residence in Namirembe has been given a new facelift following a week-long painting of the building by Sadolin in partnership with Seroma Limited. The painting of the palace which ended on the weekend is part of Sadolin’s continued efforts to contribute to the community. Sadolin contributed a total of 810 liters of paint to the project while partner Seroma Limited financed the logistics for this project. 
The inauguration of the refurbished palace was hosted by the Most Reverend, Archbishop of Uganda, Stanley Ntagali at the residence in Namirembe. The function was attended by representatives from the provincial office of the Church of Uganda, Sadolin Paint staff and the Seroma Limited proprietors Mr and Mrs. Robert Sekidde. Speaking at the event, Archbishop Ntagali thanked Sadolin Paint and Seroma Limited for their heartfelt contribution towards restoring the palace to its original beautiful state saying that the palace is considered a monumental building in the Church of Uganda as a number of Archbishops have lived there. “The palace of the archbishop is not only a home for us that live there, but a home of the Lord and we would not be any more grateful for this kind gesture towards the church,” Ntagali said. 
He said that a number of Church of Uganda buildings were in need of a facelift and that he would endeavor during his tenure as Archbishop of Uganda and Bishop of Kampala to make sure that he leaves a larger number of them refurbished. Mr. Ashish Devani while speaking at the event said that Sadolin through its social responsibility looks to continuously support refurbishments of monumental structures so as to preserve the history of the country. “Ours is a small contribution and we are delighted to partner with Seroma Limited for this project and also contribute to the preservation of the monumental structures of the Church of Uganda,” he said. Speaking on behalf of Seroma Limited, Mrs. Margaret Sekidde said that the company always works on the service of the Lord and as soon as they were appointed as part of the renovation committee of archbishop’s palace, chose Sadolin as the strategic partner for the project. “We are happy to see that this project has come to fruition and thank Sadolin for their contribution,” she said. The Archbishop’s Palace is the formal the residence of the Archbishop of the Church of Uganda. The residence is located on Plot 836, Willis Road, Namirembe. 
The Dedication stone of the Archbishop’s residence was laid by The Most Rev. and Rt. Hon. The Lord Archbishop of Canterbury Dr. George Leonard Carey and was assisted by the Most Rev. Livingstone Mpalanyi Nkoyoyo, Archbishop of the Church of the Province of Uganda on May 8, 1998 after major renovations and extension of the residence which had started in 1994. Until April 2018, the residence was last refurbished in 2012. The palace has so far been home for the following former Archbishops; The Most Rev. Janani Luwum , The Most Rev. Livingstone Mpalanyi Nkoyoyo , The Most Rev. Henry Luke Orombi and The Most Rev. Stanley Ntagali. Sadolin has a rich history that started when Gunnar Sadolin founded Sadolin Farver in 1907 – a concern focused on artist’s paints and printing inks. Five years later in 1912, Sadolin Farver merged with Holmblad to create an organisation with paint manufacturing capabilities. 
Between 1912 and 1987, Sadolin & Holmblad underwent significant expansion – first through the production of synthetic organic pigments in 1923 followed by the introduction of a chain of independent paint shops to drive the growth of the Sadolin brand. Akzonobel – previously known as Nobel Industries – acquired Sadolin & Holmblad in 1987 and is the proud custodian of the Sadolin brand in East Africa and across multiple markets internationally. On the other hand, Seroma Limited is a leading distributor of building and construction materials in Uganda with over 7 branches in the different parts of Uganda. The founders at the back of their mind had a major aim of knowing God and making Him known through business (Psalm 24:1). Post Views: 134