Tuesday April 10 2018 Police hunt 3,000 deserters The new Inspector General of Police Okoth Ochola (R) and his deputy Sabiiti consult. File photo Advertisement By JOSEPH KATO 
Kampala- At least 3,500 police officers have reportedly deserted the Uganda Police Force in the last three years, senior police officers have revealed. 
A senior police source said the officers, mostly from Field Force Unit (FFU), General Duties, Anti-Stock Theft Unit (ASTU), and Tourism Police, abandoned service between May 2014 and 2017. 
“We have learnt that close to 1,000 FFU officers have deserted and these are followed by General Duties that has about 800 deserters. These officers’ whereabouts are not known because most of them deserted during eviction from barracks,” a source said. Soon after the 2016 General Election, several officers, with nearly 2,000 under FFU and another 1,500 under General Duties, were evicted from Naguru and Nsambya police barracks in Kampala. 
The officers often told the media that they were being evicted for voting against President Museveni in the February 18 presidential election. But former police spokesperson Fred Enanga and his predecessor, the late Andrew Felix Kaweesi, dismissed the claims insisting that the evictions were done to rid the barracks of congestion. 
“Most of these officers were disgruntled by the evictions and they decided to quit police force. Even those who had accepted to be taken to Kakiri and Mityana barracks were disappointed by insufficient accommodation and they also quit,” a source said. 
The disappearance of 3,500 police officers was reportedly unearthed a fortnight ago after new Inspector General of Police Okoth Ochola, ordered a head count of all officers at all police stations, units and directorates. 
Deputy police spokesperson Patrick Onyango while addressing the media on Monday warned that such officers would be prosecuted in criminal courts. 
Police have directed officers in charge of criminal investigations at all its 1,081 police station to work on files of all officers who have absconded for three weeks and more. A police officers is declared a deserter after disappearance from duty for 21 days which commonly known as Absent Without Leave. 
Units most affected by the desertion are Aviation Police, Crime Intelligence, Railway Police, and Counterterrorism with each of the units reportedly registering between 70 to 200 deserters. A senior police officer said most of the officers who are AWOL are those working in Karamoja, National Parks, and Kasese. 
“FFU officers are most neglected units and their payments are sometimes delayed. They often complain but they are never listened to. Others quit because they were being witch hunted by seniors,” a source added. jkato@ug.nationmedia.com