Tuesday April 10 2018 Blow by blow as Age limit case starts in Mbale Left-Right: Constitutional Court justices Cheborion Barishaki, Elizabeth Musoke, Kenneth Kakuru and Remmy Kasule ahead of the hearing of the age limit petition in Mbale yesterday. Photo by Michael Kakumirizi Advertisement 
10:14am: Judges walk into the fully packed courtroom. Court clerk calls out the respective petitions to be handled. Mwesigwa Rukutana (Deputy Attorney General, herein cited as the respondent): My lords, I am representing the respondent. I am assisted by Mr Francis Atoke, the Solicitor General, Ms Christine Kaakwa, the acting Director of Civil litigation, Martin Mwambutsya, Henry Oluka, Elisha Bafirawala, George Kalemera, Richard Adrole, Geoffrey Madete, Imelda Adongo, Sussan Akello, Johnson Akwera and Jackie Amusgut.My lords, the petitioners are represented by Dan Wandera Ogalo, James Byamukama, Ladislaus Rwakafuuzi, Erias Lukwago, Yusufu Musembuli, James Jjabi, Moses Okalany, Luyimbazi Nalukoola, and Wanjiyu Badru. Male Mabirizi Kiwanuka (one of the petitioners) : I am representing myself, there is no law that bars me from utilising court facility. Justice Kenneth Kakuru: Please, if you are representing yourself, you cannot sit at the Bar. The head of the Bar should advise. Rukutana : I tried without success for him to sit where other parties are seated (laughter in court). Mr Mabirizi has not been given a barrister to sit at the Bar. Rwakafuuzi: My proposal is that since he represents himself, let him sit nearer here. Dollo: Let me make my ruling. Mr Mabirizi is a petitioner and he has every right to be heard. The other petitioners have been represented. The right to be heard does not mean the right to choose where to sit. You would even be sitting next to me here. Accordingly, you will not sit at the Bar. Mabirizi: My lord, I will appeal Dollo: You have a right to do so (Mabiriizi interjects but he is overruled by court). Mr Mabirizi, we are not here to play games. Kakuru: This is not a marketplace.Dollo: I can throw you out of this court using court orderlies and your case will be heard alone. Kakuru : You are appealing and your case will be pulled out of the consolidation [consolidated petitions). Male: My lords, I am appealing that decision. Dollo : No, you have to put it in writing Lukwago : When the consolidated petitions were read out the main case was not read out…. Then there is the substantive petition of Hon. Karuhanga and 5 others Vs Attorney General. The reference was left out, pending your ruling. Dollo: That main one is before us. Lukwago : If it is going to be heard separately, then it has to be cause-listed separately. The clarification I was seeking was whether both were consolidated. I want the names read out. Dollo: Go ahead and read the names but it is good manners to stand up when your name is read out. (Lukwago reads out names of the six opposition MPs, including the Leader of Opposition in Parliament, Ms Winfred Kiiza). Rukutana: The petitions that were read here were the consolidated ones. The consolidated ones did not include the reference. Dollo: Counsel Lukwago was concerned because he was reading the issues; the ones that had almost had the same facts do not appear. That is why he expressed his concerns. Rukutana : I am much obliged my lord… My friends on the other side are confused about the consolidation with cause list. Dollo : At least the court is not confused Rukutana : It is my learned friends on the other side Dollo: Please withdraw that statement, they are not confused Rukutana: I withdraw that statement, my lord. Mabirizi: My lord, can I come over and sit? Dollo : Now we are on the move, you see the court is like my house. I normally know where to tell my visitors to sit Mabirizi: My lord, I am a petitioner and I represent myself. Rukutana: My lord before, I was seeking for a procedural clarification, Benjamin Alipanga, the petitioner, whereas this matter was not cause-listed, it is on court record. I am seeking your indulgence my lords, having discussed the matter with the petitioners Andrew Oluka : I am holding brief for counsel Akampurira and Fred Muwema. This matter was withdrawn as most of the issues being sought were overtaken by events. Rukutana: I want to put on record that counsel Kiryowa Kiwanuka and Mr Essama Kibuuku are both representing NRM. Kakuru: This constitutional petition is here by dismissed, all parties having consented to the same. Rukutana: There are two applications by petitioner Mabirizi, which have an effect of maligning this court.Dollo: That is not true learned Attorney General. Everyone has a right to bring an application and court should determine it judiciously. Mabirizi: I have three applications to make; No 45 of 2017, No 46 of 2017 was for an interim order, and I have 10 of 2018 for discovery of documents. I just gave up the application for recusal (seeking to have one of the judges withdrawn from the case) after looking at the circumstances. Dollo: What do you say about the application for injunction? Male: I am withdrawing No 45 and 46. Dollo: How about for the discovery? Male: I am withdrawing it too since most of the documents were recovered.Rukutana: The petitioner is notorious Dollo: You are the Attorney General and head of the Bar. It is not right to make such remarks. Let us make decorum at every stage as judicial officers. I know tempers can rise. Rukutana : I bow to the guidance of the court for referring to the petitioner as being notorious. I pray for costs Dollo: Is there an offence for someone to seek an injunction?Rukutana: My lords, I rest my case if that is the position of the court Dollo: Justice Kasule will make a rulingJustice Kasule: Constitutional applications of 45 of 2017 and 46 of 2017 and 10 of 2018, are here by dismissed. Rukutana: We thought it pertinent that before embarking on the hearing of the petitions that this court be pleased to consolidate constitutional petitions no. 49 of 2017, 49 of Male Mabirizi Vs AG, No. 5 of 2018 Hon Karuhanga and 5 others Vs AG, constitutional petition 3 of 2018, Uganda Law Society Vs AG, constitutional petition 10 of 2018, Prosper Businge Vs AG, Abaime Jonathan Vs AG, and constitutional no. 37 of 2017 and Raphael Magyezi. Justice Cheborion Barishaki: The petitioners were served and there is no reason why they are not here. For that reason, the matter is dismissed. No order for costs.(There are protracted arguments about dismissal or consolidation of various petitions between the judges and the lawyers for both sides. Some petitions are dismissed while others are consolidated). Dollo: Is there any other matter that needs to be determined. Rukutana : That is it for the consolidation schedule. We pray that the matters I read out be consolidated Dollo: How many are they now? Rukutana: Five of them my lords; Male Mabirizi Vs AG, Karuhanga and 5 others Vs AG, ULS Vs AG, Prosper Businge Vs AG, Abaime Jonathan Vs AG . Dollo: Learned counsel for the petitioners? I hope you are still Wandera Ogalo (laughter). Ogalo: We have no objection. Kakuru: So the petitions are five, Mr Mabirizi, what do you have to say since counsel Wandera does not represent you? Mabirizi: I take the position of counsel Ogalo Lukwago : We had indicated we would want some witnesses summoned and cross-examined. Doll o: Can you make an application? Lukwago : We have received a lot of affidavits in support of petition No. 5. We felt that for justice to be met in this matter, we needed some witnesses be crossed-examined. We have Gen David Muhoozi, the Chief of Defence Forces, we have John Mitala, the head of Public Service and Mr Keith Muhakanizi, the Secretary to the Treasury, Frank Mwesigwa, the commandant of Kampala Metropolitan Police, Mr Asuman Mugenyi, the director of police operations, Ms Jane Kibirige, the Clerk to Parliament, Moses Balyeku, MP for Jinja Municipality West and Kagoye Ahmed, the Sergeant at Arms. Mabirizi: My lord, I am moving under Order and Rule 16. I pray that you call Speaker of Parliament Rebecca Kadaga. Dollo : Has the Speaker sworn an affidavit? Mabirizi: No my lord, but I am moving under rule…. So I am applying to court that this person is required in court. Dollo: Why would you want her to come? Mabirizi: She holds a constitutional office under which office she is accountable to the people of Uganda. Secondly, she chaired all the proceedings in the age limit saga and she breached all the laws... Dollo: Learned Attorney General, what do you have to say? Rukutana : I strongly oppose these applications. The applications for cross- examination are governed by rule 12 (2) with the leave of the court. Any person may be called and cross-examined. There has to be evidence on record to cause their summoning. Apart from asking to be summoned, Counsel Lukwago didn’t indicate the nature of evidence against them. That application to have the Speaker summoned is frivolous and misconceived. I pray that it’s disregarded. Kakuru : The Speaker of Parliament is not above the law but I wonder how a person can be crossed-examined without having been first examined.... Kaahwa: The application to have the Speaker cross-examined will be a discretion of the court if there are any issues that are not clear. Kasule : Counsel Kaahwa, you don’t seem to be in agreement with the Privileges Act of Parliament that bar officers of Parliament from being subjected to powers of the court Rukutana : Where any of those references has made themselves a witness, provided the criteria is arrived at, court has the discretion to summon these witnesses. Dollo: The learned Attorney General, I have followed your submission. Isn’t there a difference between protecting the Speaker and Deputy from being held liable from official duties? I am not making my ruling but does the law that you are reading from exempt her from being cross-examined? If we find that she didn’t do it outside the law, fine, but if we find that she acted outside the law, we hold her liable. Kakuru: How can the Speaker be immune from the constitution? Rukutana : My lord, I take your wise counsel. Kasule : The Speaker or Deputy or any officer of Parliament enjoys immunity. But if they voluntarily swear in an affidavit in support of any case in court, then they subject themselves to the whims of court Rukutana: I wouldn’t have said it any much better. But the party seeking to cross-examine her must satisfy court. Lukwago : If you go by the argument of the court, should we have stated our questions that we are going to ask this and the other? Barishaki: You would give clues that on this affidavit we want to ask this and the other Kakuru: You should specify areas that you want to cross- examine Mabirizi: My lord, I had a rejoinder. I seek to examine the Speaker but not to cross examine her. Why I went to Order 16, Rule One. In this case, Rule 12 only provides for witnesses who have subscribed to court but we may have someone important to the case but she is hiding her head in the sand. So court should then summon her…. Dollo : We will pronounce ourselves when court resumes this afternoon. Rukutana : My lord, they are two letters on court record that were authored by Mabirizi. Dollo: The letters were written to the Deputy Chief Justice but there is no application to that effect in court. If you are talking of the letters written to the Deputy Chief Justice that were flying around but they are not on court record, there is nothing like that. Barishaki: We needed a statement on that matter as the same appeared on social media and print media Dollo: The Constitutional Court is sitting here to determine very important matters. Various people have discussed this matter at various levels in Parliament and pork joints. The persons have come to this court to seek justice. I want to assure each one of you that the court will give opportunity to counsel for petitioners and respondents to present their case to the best of their knowledge and the court will handle it judiciously…. 
About the letters that are not on court record; it went on social media, I could not believe. When you receive a document like that and the first thing you make is to make it viral… This is not to prevent any person from raising any issues but there is a procedure. Leave the administration of court to court. Don’t determine who sits on the panel. ( Court adjourns for lunch ). advertisement