Tuesday April 10 2018 NRM members in Bugiri plan demo ahead of Museveni’s visit President Museveni, during one of his 2016 campaign rallies held at Budhaya Sub-County headquarters, allegedly pledged 30 heifers to opposition members who defected to NRM. FILE PHOTO In Summary President Museveni, during one of his 2016 campaign rallies held at Budhaya Sub-County headquarters, pledged 30 heifers to opposition members who defected to NRM. Advertisement By Asuman Musobya 
National Resistance Movement (NRM) members, who defected from the opposition during the 2016 general elections, plan to hold a demonstration on Friday ahead of President Museveni’s visit to the district this weekend. 
President Museveni is expected to launch power lines in Bukooli Central Constituency in Bugiri District this weekend. 
Bukooli Central MP Solomon Silwany, during a planning meeting ahead of the President’s visit held at the district headquarters on Monday, said the main rally will be held at Isakabisolo Primary School. 
Mr Silwany added that among the issues to be raised to the President include; a special program for Busoga Sub-region, increment of salaries for civil servants, and a request to give amnesty to the suspected Allied Democratic Forces (ADF) rebels from Bugiri District. 
According to Mr Amuza Kosolo, the ex-campaign coordinator of former Bukooli Central MP Philip Wafula Oguttu, the demonstration follows government’s alleged failure to fulfil its pledges. 
“President Museveni promised to give 30 heifers to members of the opposition who crossed to NRM, but we have waited for the promise in vain,” Mr Kasolo said on Monday, adding that the matter was earlier put to the NRM party secretary general, Ms Justine Kasule Lumumba, who has since been postponing. 
"We are planning a demonstration at the district headquarters this Friday before the President launches the power lines in Bukooli Central,” Mr Kasolo said, warning that if the President doesn't fulfill his pledges, they are to return to their parties. 
President Museveni, during one of his 2016 campaign rallies held at Budhaya Sub-County headquarters, pledged 30 heifers to opposition members who defected to NRM. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com