New curriculum for 0’Level: Commerce, Home Economics among the 23 subjects dropped/merged   
The government has overhauled the O-Level curriculum, dropping or merging 23 subjects and approving only 20 to be taught. “We have removed obsolete information, merged topics to take care of overlaps and introduced relevant topics that we hope will contribute to nation building,” said James Droti, the National Curriculum Development Centre (NCDC) specialist. 
In the changes; Principles of Accounts and Commerce have been merged into Entrepreneurship while Technical Drawing, Wood Work and Metal Work have been merged into the newly-introduced subject; Technology and Design. Also dropped is Home Economics as a stand-alone subject. It is now subsumed under Food and Nutrition. - Advertisement - 
other dropped/ Merged subjects include; Type writing, Additional Mathematics , Power and Energy, Electricity and Electronics, Accounts, Commerce, Technical Drawing, Woodwork Metal work and Political Education. Others are: Health Science, Home Economics, Textile and clothing, Office practice Shorthand, Building and construction, Fasihi ya Kiswahili, Textile and Clothing and Tailoring Mr Droti, said the method of assessing performance of lower secondary students has been revised, with Uganda Certificate of Education examination results now accounting for 80 per cent. 
According to new arrangement, a continuous competence assessment based on skills attained in subjects taught from Senior One to Four will account for 20 per cent of the O-Level final score. Students will still take inter-class promotional examination but the focus of the teaching and learning is shifting from marks-based objective approach to one that emphasizes competence or acquired skills. According to Daily Monitor, the Ministry of Education and NCDC officials presented the changes to President Museveni recently, and he endorsed them. 
There had been up to 43 subjects examined in O-Level. However, the then Education minister Namirembe Bitamazire reduced them to 32. The NCDC has now reduced the number of O-Level subjects to 20. With the new arrangement, only seven subjects will be compulsory. Candidates will be expected to take a maximum of 10 examinable subjects out of 13 taught in S1 and S2. Schools will be expected to run classes from 8:30am to 2:30pm, allowing students two additional hours each day for self-discovery and engagement with teachers before school closure at 4:30pm. 
Approved O-Level subjects