No One can remove Museveni from power; He has lots of money, power – Ruth Nankabirwa   
Government Chief Whip and Kiboga Woman MP Ruth Nankabirwa Ssentamu has said that president Museveni cannot easily be removed from power by anyone. 
Addressing residents of Kabale over the weekend, Nankabirwa said President Museveni has lots of money, power and other resources, thus he cannot be removed from power by anyone. Nankabirwa was in the area for the belated International Women’s Day. 
The 52 year old, says no other person in the country wields as much power or has other resources like President Museveni. Adding that Mr. Museveni is the only capable leader pushing Uganda to the Promised Land. - Advertisement - 
Nankabirwa recently said that President Museveni’s intellect is beyond human; perhaps next to God’s. 
She added: the President is superhuman both in his thinking and deeds. Nankabirwa says this is the reason he [President Museveni] has devoted most of time and energy to see that Ugandans come out of poverty. “….. Like Jesus, he [President Museveni] left the comforts of the world and decided to use his life to help Ugandans out of poverty and misery,” she said. 
What is Nankabirwa up to? 
Dr David Babi Kamusaala, a psychologist and Head of Human Resource in the Faculty of Business and Management Sciences at Mbarara University of Science and Technology (MUST), argues that Mr Museveni has over the years been seen to reward those who sing his praises with appointments to key positions in government and that those who do not have jobs right now have chosen to praise sing their way into them while those who already have seem to be inclined towards praise singing their way into bigger portfolios. 
READ: Besigye not fit to be president of Uganda – Prof. Kanyeihamba 
“People like Ms Anywar[ Kitgum Woman MP] have already hinted on what it is that is driving them. She told us that if he offers her a job, she will go running for it. That is more like a blind application for it. Others like Ms Nankabirwa and Mr Oulanyah [ Deputy Speaker of Parliament] must be looking forward to some kind of promotions,” Dr Kamusaala told Daily Monitor