Court throws out mental health case Patients at Butabika National Mental Referral Hospital In Summary Ms Primah Kwagala, the Program manager, Strategic Litigation at CEHURD, said it was unfortunate for the presiding judge to commend Butabika hospital for violating the rights of patients in seclusion rooms instead of safe guarding them and the dignity of mentally ill persons. At the tail end of his decision, Justice Musota noted that since the matter was of public interest, each party was to meet its own costs. Advertisement By ANTHONY WESAKA 
KAMPALA. The High Court in Kampala has dismissed a case that was challenging the practice of torturing mental health patients in secluded rooms at Butabika National Referral Hospital. 
The case had been filed by a civil society organization, Center for Health, Human Rights and Development (CEHURD) and one of the mentally ill persons, Mr Benon Kabale, who claimed to have gone through the torture in the seclusion room. 
The Attorney General who is the chief government legal advisor was listed as the sole respondent. 
READ: Report questions handling of patients in Butabika 
They had unsuccessfully argued that the practice of seclusion of patients with mental disabilities is a violation of the right to health and the right to freedom from torture among other violations. 
But in his judgment dated March 15, 2018, then presiding Judge Stephen Musota, noted that the case had been based on only one mentally ill patient and the same could not be used as a yardstick against the rest of the mental patients in the country. 
“It is important to note that the plaintiffs (Mr Kabale and CEHURD), only had one victim, so the claims that it is done to every patient is not believable even the evidence presented by the plaintiffs was lacking to warrant the grant of the orders sought,” ruled Justice Musota who has since been elevated to the Court of Appeal. 
“The application is based on the alleged violation of the rights of one patient but the plaintiffs seek orders that are too wide and too generalized which this court can’t grant.” the judge further ruled. 
The dismissed case was premised on the alleged continued violation of human rights by the staff and the administration of Butabika hospital whom they accused of locking up and undressing anaesthetized patients in two square meter seclusion rooms which have no toilets, no beddings, and are poorly ventilated for periods of eight hours without any supervision. 
Subsequently, the petitioners said that the patients would urinate and defecate in these rooms while enduring living in the rooms with such excreta. 
However, the judge in his verdict, disregarded all the grounds aforementioned citing lack of merit in them. 
At the tail end of his decision, Justice Musota noted that since the matter was of public interest, each party was to meet its own costs. 
Addressing the media yesterday, Ms Primah Kwagala, the Program manager, Strategic Litigation at CEHURD, said it was unfortunate for the presiding judge to commend Butabika hospital for violating the rights of patients in seclusion rooms instead of safe guarding them and the dignity of mentally ill persons. 
“The way Butabika hospital handled Mr Kabale was unacceptable. His rights to health were violated. No Ugandan should be handled with such indignity.” Ms Kwagala said. 
The petitioners also indicated that they are to appeal against the decision of the court, reasoning that mentally ill persons deserve to be respected and protected against the draconian inhumane and degrading practices. advertisement