Tuesday April 10 2018 Five suspects in death of Finnish national granted bail Suspects in the case of manslaughter of the Finnish national at Buganda road court where they were granted a cash bail of 10 million cash apart from one accused (in yellow) who was granted a non cash bail of 10 million because of her status of being pregnant. PHOTO BY ABUBAKER LUBOWA In Summary Prosecution further states that A4 Alinda and A5 Kyabagye on February 2, in Kampala forged an invitation letter dated February 2, 2018 purporting that it was signed by Col Frank Bagyenda Kaka, ISO head. The duo is facing the count of conspiracy to forge the document in question alongside Nagayi. Advertisement By BETTY NDAGIRE 
KAMPALA. Buganda Road Chief Magistrate’s Court has granted bail to five people accused of causing death to a Finnish national. 
The accused persons are; Faridah Nagayi receptionist in Qatar, Fatuma Kabagambe a house wife, Nassifu Walusimbi, a driver, Caroline Alinda, a businesswoman, and Appolo Kyabagye a senior intelligence officer with ISO. 
These suspects face four counts ranging from manslaughter, trafficking in narcotic drugs, forgery of an invitation document, to conspiracy to commit the offence. They have since denied the charges. 
The Chief Magistrate, Mr James Ereemye, told court that he listened to both the submissions of the state and defence and considered to grant a cash bail of Shs10million to four of the suspects who included; A1 (accused No. 1)Nagayi, A2 Kabagambe, A3 Walusimbi and A5 Kyabagye. 
“…your lawyers raised pertinent issues and the sureties presented as well appeared credible. Without any prejudice, I proceed to grant cash bail of Shs10 to AI, A2, A3 and A5 respectively,”Mr Ereemye held. 
Court as well opted to grant a non-cash bail of Shs10m to A4 Alinda on ground that her lawyer raised a pertinent issue of her need to secure bail as she is the sole bread winner at home and is currently expecting (pregnant), so it would not be in the interest of justice to subject her to prison condition. 
The suspects’ sureties were each granted a non cash bond of Shs20million.These sureties last week tendered in court their identification documents as a requirement to be able to stand surety for someone. 
On the counts of manslaughter , trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, prosecution contends that A1 Nagayi, A2 Kabagambe and A3 Walusimbi, on the February 6, at Pearl of Africa Hotel in Kampala, the three unlawfully caused death to Terasvuori Tuomas Juha Petteri, 42, a Finland national, when they allegedly delivered narcotic drugs to him a day before. 
Prosecution further states that A4 Alinda and A5 Kyabagye on February 2, in Kampala forged an invitation letter dated February 2, 2018 purporting that it was signed by Col Frank Bagyenda Kaka, ISO head. 
The duo is facing the count of conspiracy to forge the document in question alongside Nagayi. 
The presiding magistrate Ereemye adjourned the case to April 24 for further hearing. 
bndagire@ug.nationmedia.com Related Stories