Meet Mubiru, the Sam in the Katusekemu skits Ashiraf Mubiru aka Sam. PHOTOS BY GODFREY LUGAAJU In Summary 
If you have watched the different skits of the Katusekemu family, you have come across Sam, the naughty, provocative and greedy son of Taata Sam. Godfrey Lugaaju caught up with him and shares his story. Advertisement By Godfrey Lugaaju 
Briefly tell us about yourself? My name is Ashiraf Mubiru. I am the second born in a family of five and I am 12 years old. I have been acting as Sam in the Katusekemu family for the last one year. 
How did you start acting in the group? Last year, I acted as a stubborn boy in the play ‘Head girl’. The school took the play to Royal Theatre and Taata Sam (Robert Sunday) was in attendance. He liked the way I acted and looked for me to join his crew. At first, it did not work out for me since my trainers wanted to use me to get money from him but later, came through my father who handed me over to him to nurture my talent. 
How is it like acting Sam? I find it nice and interesting. At first, things were difficult but they are now easy. While acting, I get a chance to eat a lot of food since most skits are about eating. I also like the fact that I play different roles to unite my family in skits. Is this what you have always wanted to be? No, I always wanted to be a footballer. I always forced myself to it but I realised later that my calling is in comedy. I am happy here and I will do football as a supplement to this. 
What is the hardest part you have ever acted? That was the part where I had to give my father milk that was contaminated by a rat. Although it was not real, I found it disturbing and discomforting. This was also my first skit and I did not know how to position myself for the camera. I was forgetting words, skipping some and also scared. 
Mubiru acts as a unifying factor for the couple in the Katusekemu family 
Do you write your scenes? I do not write most of them but I add in one or two things to make it lively. I add in some funny words, stories and of course facial expressions. 
What have you benefited from acting Sam? I got a bursary from my director to study for a whole year for free. I have also become famous, got a number of friends and I have travelled across the country. One important thing is also that my parents are proud of what I have become and it pays my fees. 
Are you paid? Yes, at first I was being paid Shs20,000 but now am paid Shs250, 000 every shooting. I am not certain about the money for the shows but it is also paid to my father. He keeps this money and helps me budget for it for financial discipline. 
Are you going to act for the rest of your life? Yes, I want to pursue it and I will put in efforts and do it professionally. I believe comedy has become part of me. 
Who is your role model? I like Andrew Benon Kibuuka’s acting. He spices up his drama with his funny and comic character. I always look up to him and I will be like him one day. 
What do you enjoy doing? I like composing songs and skit in my free time. I do this for monetary purposes. 
What is your schedule like? In most cases, shooting is abrupt but I make the most of the time for studies while at school. When I have to go for shows, I am given a short leave from school and focus entirely on classwork when I return. 
Is there anything else you do apart from acting? Yes, I play football and I am a big Barcelona fan. Lionel Messi is my best player and I hope to be like him one day. 
Where do you see yourself in the next 10 years? I will be a big international comedy icon and will fly Uganda’s flag high. 
How do your friends at school treat you? They say I am stubborn and that I eat a lot because of the Sam they see in the skits. They usually ask me to teach them how to act comedy and develop confidence while on stage. 
Who is your friend in the Katusekemu family? Taata Sam because he advises, guides and counsels me while nurturing my talent. He is a good man who carries the virtues of teamwork, patience and a cool temper. 
What have you learnt from him? To be a down-to-earth person. He usually tells me that humility is the key to success. He has also taught me that patience, honesty and are good virtues to have.