By Badru Kasadah - April 10, 2018 Phoebe Nakabazzi (L) DStv Marketing Manager and Albert Nga, GOtv Marketing Manager display the FIFA 2018 World Cup fixtures with SuperSport annoucing broadcasting all 64 matches 
MultiChoice Uganda has revealed its preparations for the upcoming FIFA World Cup in Russia, aimed at attracting massive watching. 

The world’s best footballers on the world’s best sports broadcaster! This is the promise from Super Sport, which will broadcast an unprecedented offering of World Cup football, beginning in June. 

Addressing media at the MultiChoice Head office, Phoebe Nakabazzi , DStv Marketing Manager said: “In mid-April, the switch will be flipped to a 24-hour World Cup channel (SuperSport 13), allowing fans an appetiser of the 2018 FIFA World Cup – to come two months later from the heart of Russia. Packed with legacy content, highlights, documentaries, FIFA films, classic matches and interviews, the channel will also feature warm-up matches to prepare every football fan for the tournament that traditionally gets the world talking.” 

From June 14 until the final in Moscow on July 15, MultiChoice will present an unparalleled viewing experience of the 2018 FIFA World Cup for DStv and GOtv customers across all platforms. 
Senegal, Nigeria, Egypt, Tunisia and Morocco will be spearheading the African challenge come June. 
All 64 matches of the 2018 FIFA World Cup will be available on all DStv packages. 
Ms Nakabazzi added: “What’s more, DStv customers will be treated to two 24-hour pop-up channels (SuperSport 13 and 14) dedicated entirely to the tournament with live match commentary options in Pidgin and Swahili. Coverage will be integrated into a multi-platform offering that includes traditional television, on-the-go via the DStv Now app and online at supersport.com . There will also be regular news updates on the popular Blitz channel.” 
Also at the press conference, Albert Nga, GOtv Marketing Manager said: “GOtv Max, Plus and Value packages will show 64 matches and 56 matches respectively while GOtv Lite customers can also catch highlights on Blitz”. 
“This is a comprehensive offering that reflects the global reach and excitement on the world’s number one game. Few events enthral people in every corner of the earth, but the World Cup does so. We’ll be pulling out all stops to tell the story of the 2018 edition in rich colour and language,” Mr. Nga added.