Home / News / Uganda’s She Cranes humiliate Wales, eye semifinal place Uganda’s She Cranes humiliate Wales, eye semifinal place FILE PHOTO: Uganda She Cranes added another victory to their win. Their first win was against Malawi 
Uganda 🇺🇬 76 Wales 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁷󠁬󠁳󠁿 40 
Wales remain winless after a frustrating match against Uganda 
Gold Coast, Australia | THE INDEPENDENT & WELSHNETBALL.COM | Proscovia continued her shooting masterclass at the Commonwealth Games, scoring 56 goals as Uganda’s netballers mauled Wales 76-40 in their penultimate group game. 
Sitting bottom of Pool B at the 2018 Commonwealth Games, Wales (World rank 10) had it all to do against Uganda (rank 7), who despite some very creditable performances had just one win against Malawi to their name thus far in the tournament. 
Uganda’s 36-goal margin win Tuesday now gives them an outside chance of making it to the semifinals. 
Wales made some good early opportunities for themselves but failed to convert, nevertheless it was a far more settled start than in their previous three Commonwealth Games assignments. However, a lack of composure in their opponents’ end led to some unforced turnovers and Uganda raced to a first quarter 19-8 lead. 
In all, the She Cranes demonstrated far more accuracy and dynamism in what proved to be a disappointing period for Wales. 
Despite having an ice-pack applied during the interval, Proscovia continued her shooting masterclass immediately upon the resumption of the match. Leila Thomas and Amanda Varey came on as Wales sought to find consistency and challenge the Ugandan lead. However, the required consistency never materialised as the Ugandan lead continued to grow apace. 
Wales performed better during the first five minutes of the third quarter, but Uganda couldn’t be caught. Wales brought on Georgia Rowe and moved Chelsea Lewis to goal attack in their search for more goals, but Uganda continued to find acres of space on court. 
The misery continued for Wales with Nia Jones receiving a warning from officials and the penalty count passing the 60-mark during the fourth period. Wales had only made 42 feeds into the circle by this point and it was creditable that Wales had converted 35 of these. However, generally it was difficult to find positives in what was a disappointing performance. 
Pool B