March 20, 2018 UBA regional Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Emeke E. Iweriebor 
The United Bank of Africa will invest heavily in economic development and growth initiatives in East and Southern Africa, the newly appointed UBA regional Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Emeke E. Iweriebor has said. 
Iweriebor, who was addressing staff at the UBA offices in Kampala noted that despite being the fourth largest economy in the region with $27.2 billion GDP, Uganda has a strong and competitive banking industry with 24 commercial banks. 
According to Iweriebor, he will work closely with the Bank’s staff, customers, governments, companies, international organizations, and stakeholders in Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania, Zambia, Congo DRC and Mozambique for transformation of UBA businesses. 
“Through world class financial solutions to private and public sectors in the region, I will spearhead the tremendous transformation of this region given their immense opportunities for economic development and financial inclusion,” he said. 
Prior to his new role, Iweriebor served as the CEO, UBA Africa Francophone and Lusophone in charge of French and Portuguese speaking countries in West, Central, and Southern Africa. 
Meanwhile, Jackie Tumuhairwe, the Head of Marketing and Corporate Communications in UBA, said Iweriebor comes with a wealth of experience and proven ability in leading teams and positively transforming UBA’s businesses in other regions. 
She noted that UBA has formed strategic partnerships with key stakeholders such as Uganda Revenue Authority, Ministry of Finance and educational institutions countrywide to provide digital financial solutions to build a lasting foundation for sustainable growth of the bank. 
United Bank for Africa Uganda is one of the leading financial institutions operating in 19 countries with three global financial centers in London, Paris and New York, offering retail and commercial playing field in Uganda among other countries delivering unique financial products and solutions as a strong African brand.