Wednesday April 11 2018 Drive to boost income in Acholi launched An official from the Inspectorate of Government observes a nursery bed under the NUSAF III 3 in Basere Village, Dokolo District, last week. PHOTO BY JULIUS OCUNGI Advertisement By JULIUS OCUNGI 
Gulu- Many businessmen in Acholi Sub-region incur huge losses arising from inexperience in record keeping and business management. One such person is Margaret Ayoo, 61, who, for the last six years, has run a retail shop but without keeping records to determine whether her business is thriving or not. 
Ms Ayoo, who also practices subsistence farming, says her business has never expanded since she opened it in Ding Village, Unyama Sub-county, Gulu District. 
“I have never had the opportunity to take proper records of my sales. I also used to give out many goods on credit to customers who ended up not paying. This has affected my sales,” she says. 
But thanks to training under the Northern Uganda Social Action Fund (NUSAF III) project, Ms Ayoo hopes to acquire entrepreneurial skills that will sustain her business. 
Under NUSAF III, at least 1,320 people, drawn from eight districts in Acholi Sub-region, are being trained in business management skills.“Through this training, I am confident of expanding my business. I will also reduce on issuing goods on credit and begin taking more keen interest in keeping sales records,” Ayoo says. 
Mr Alfred Odera Obol, the Nusaf III operation specialist, says the training is to enable the beneficiaries run sustainable income generating projects. 
He says unlike NUSAF I and II projects that targeted infrastructure development, the current programme aims at livelihood transformation. “This project seeks to improve access to income-earning opportunities for the poor households in northern and eastern Uganda by boosting household income generation, building resilience and fostering long-term sustainability of the project’s output,” Mr Odera says. He adds the chosen groups will each receive a maximum of $5,000 (about Shs17 million) as startup capital. 
He says group members will be required to save at least 30 per cent of their income so as to create a revolving fund. Mr Charles Ocici, the executive director Enterprise Uganda that is conducting the training, said it will help make the beneficiaries to be more business-oriented. 
Mr Ocici said the region has been in conflict in the past two decades and most of the locals had developed the “dependency syndrome”.“We have observed this during our trainings that most of the people have not had the chance to do businesses; they still believed in handouts. But with these trainings, we expect them to start being business focused,” he said. Enterprise Uganda, in partnership with NUSAF, plans to train 10,000 beneficiaries by the end of the year and 30,000 in three years. 
Nusaf on course Meanwhile, officials from the World Bank, the Office of the Prime Minister and the Inspectorate of Government (IG) last week toured parts of northern Uganda to assess progress of NUSAF III. 
According to the director project monitoring at IG, Mr James Peny wiyi, the project is on course. “We are impressed on the progress of NUSAF III project. Unlike the NUSAF I and II where funds were grossly mismanaged and the projects didn’t meet the expected objectives, NUSAF III is going on well. We believe this will transform the lives of the community members,” Mr Peny Wiyi said in an interview. editorial@ug.nationmedia.com