Wednesday April 11 2018 Foreign firms asked to respect local content guidelines President Museveni directed that every tender awarded to a foreign firms should have 30 per cent subcontracted to local firms. FILE PHOTO In Summary According to Mr Castro Kagina Taremwa, the director, Civetecc Africa, foreign companies have failed to fulfil their part of the bargain and do not consider them for contracts. China Railway Seventh Group Company, one of the largest companies contracted by UNRA on a number of projects denies the claims. Advertisement By STEPHEN WANDERA 
Construction firms have petitioned government to prevail over foreign companies that they accuse of subjecting local firm to bad contractual obligations contrary to local content guidelines. 
Mr Francis Karuhanga, the chairman of Uganda National Association of Building and Civil Engineering Contractors, said foreign companies are failing to appreciate Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority guidelines that require international firms to have a bigger share of their worker force to be Ugandans. “Ever since that pronouncement on local content about two years ago, our members have procured equipment worth $25m. But the main contractors give us bad deals,” he said. 
Recently, President Museveni directed that every tender awarded to a foreign firms should have 30 per cent subcontracted to local firms. 
According to Mr Castro Kagina Taremwa, the director, Civetecc Africa, foreign companies have failed to fulfil their part of the bargain and do not consider them for contracts. “I have invested serious money to tap into the contracting business but I have failed to get business. I borrowed $2m to put up this but I have failed to benefit,” he said. Uganda National Roads Authority, Karuhanga said, should come to their rescue by awarding contracts to firms that respect PPDA guidelines. 
Mr Francis Kasumba, the director of Rock Trust, said government should find a way of contracting local firms since foreign companies that are given contacts are abusing the PPDA guidelines. “Foreign companies manipulate local contracts by giving them unrealistic contacts. Government should come in and save local companies,” he said. 
DENIED CLAIMS China Railway Seventh Group Company, one of the largest companies contracted by UNRA on a number of projects denies the claims. According to the company’s business development manager, Mr Cui Yun, the company “fully complies with the requirement of local content.” advertisement