Study to seek solutions for entrepreneurs Mr Randall Kempner. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary A new study that will seek to understand the challenges of local entrepreneurs has been launched. It will be conducted in two phases under the Uganda Entrepreneurial Ecosystem Initiative. The first phase will assess and diagnose the current environment in which entrepreneurs in the Gulu and Kampala operate. Advertisement By Jonathan Adengo 
A new study that will seek to understand the challenges of local entrepreneurs has been launched. The study, which will be conducted by Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs seeks to bolster entrepreneurship as well as find solutions for different challenges. 
It will be conducted in two phases under the Uganda Entrepreneurial Ecosystem Initiative. The first phase will assess and diagnose the current environment in which entrepreneurs in the Gulu and Kampala operate. The second will constitute implementation of the findings and creating solutions for the long-term. 
Mr Randall Kempner, the Aspen Network of Development Entrepreneurs executive director, said in a media briefing that the initiative is an innovative programme that will take a systems-level approach to assess enterprises. “We believe that creating an environment in which small and growing entrepreneurs can thrive is critical to the long-term economic growth and opportunity for any country and its citizens.,” he said. 
The initiative was launched early last month in Kampala Hotel, and phase one is expected to be completed by September. There are more than 200,000 registered SMEs in Uganda. However, majority of these SMEs continue to face a number of challenges, key among them lack of access to financing and cost of doing business. 
After the study, a consortium led by Centre for Development Alternatives, a Uganda-based think-tank will implement the findings together with Koltai & Company. Mr Max Walter, the Centre for Development Alternatives executive director, said phase one seeks to establish the key constraints in Uganda’s entrepreneurial ecosystem. advertisement