Wednesday April 11 2018 Little room for error Verve and venomous. Vipers celebrate Tom Masiko (2nd R)’s late winner against Bright Stars at Kitende recently. They will be hoping they can secure maximum points against Bul today as they look to stay alive in the title race. PHOTO BY ISMAIL KEZAALA In Summary A stoppage time goal from Tom Masiko, to add onto Steven Mukwala and Brian Nkuubi’s early strikes, ensured Vipers earned all three points to make up 42, now one behind KCCA and three adrift of Villa. Never before have Express, the country’s oldest club, played in the lower division, but they must earnestly start averting that possibility today when they host Mbarara City, who are equally fighting to stay up. Advertisement By ANDREW MWANGUHYA 
KAMPALA. Room for any reluctancy is reducing by the day with seven to eight matches left to the conclusion of the 2017/18 Azam Uganda Premier League (AUPL) season.Six games this afternoon have thick and fast action at both ends of the table, with actors well aware of wages for blinking. With wonder kid Allan Okello weaving his magic through UPDF with a brace on Monday, defending champions KCCA cut SC Villa’s lead to just three points. 
But with the champions, who have a game in hand on Villa and third-placed Vipers, next in action tomorrow away to Maroons, a side that took a point from Lugogo in the first round, the other title contenders can rack up the pressure today. Villa welcome coach Abdallah Mubiru’s Police, who have suffered a heavy second half collapse after an almost flawless start to the season, to Masaka looking to re-open a six-point lead on KCCA to 49. Villa will hope in-form Martin Kizza and industrious Allan Kyambadde, scorers in their last victory over Soana, come to the fore again. “For us we are taking each game at a time,” said Villa captain Bernard Muwanga, “And this is another one where we must collect three points from, at home.” 
Across in Jinja where they face stubborn Bul, Vipers will want to keep the title challenge alive as they plot to build onto their 3-2 come-from-behind victory over Bright Stars last week. “The league is now tighter than before and every game counts,” said Miguel da Costa, the Vipers coach. “So we need to have full commitment, character and focus in the remaining games to reach our target.” 
Bottom skirmish A stoppage time goal from Tom Masiko, to add onto Steven Mukwala and Brian Nkuubi’s early strikes, ensured Vipers earned all three points to make up 42, now one behind KCCA and three adrift of Villa.But it is the bottom of the table where the other big story is, with all the basement three in action. 
Never before have Express, the country’s oldest club, played in the lower division, but they must earnestly start averting that possibility today when they host Mbarara City, who are equally fighting to stay up. Anything but three points off Mbarara, whose well wishers are said to have organised transport to have their fans flock Wankulukuku, will edge Express further closer to relegation.“What I can promise,” Express coach Shafiq Bisaso told Daily Monitor, “Is we shall survive. There are a number of clubs still in this relegation fight and we shall be okay.” 
amwanguhya@ug.nationmedia.com