Kajoba rolls out US coaching experience Coaches Fred Kajoba and Sebastien Desabre. FILE PHOTO In Summary While at the Red Bull Arena, Kajoba and Basena got a glorious opportunity to meet former Manchester United, England and Everton midfielder Phil Neville, currently the English Women’s National team coach, who had also come to consult. Kajoba and Basena will head back to US in July for mentorship in preseason training methodologies which the former says will change the ‘traditional’ ways they have been approaching matches. Advertisement By DENIS BBOSA 
KAMPALA. The three weeks that coaches Fred Kajoba and Moses Basena have spent in US with Major League Soccer (MLS) side New York Red Bull have opened their eyes on the value of facilities, time keeping and discipline in assembling a professional team. 
The coaching duo that previously handled Uganda Cranes before Frenchman Sebastien Desabre arrived in December, has been schooled in team preparation, goalkeeping, new training methodologies in a short course secured by Ibrahim Sekagya, who works at New York Red Bulls youth team. Kajoba is thankful to Sekagya for his generosity during their stay and Fufa for catering for their air tickets, accommodation and the allowances. “The federation and government must work on facilities and training tools if we are to go to another level,” Kajoba, also coach of league side Bright Stars told Daily Monitor on return. 
Goalkeeping project “My emphasis in learning was in the goalkeeping department. I have told the federation to let me start working with Under-17 goalkeepers country wide and their coaches because they hold the future. A goalkeeper must be able to control the ball and distribute it in the modern game which few of our current players can do,” he added.While at the Red Bull Arena, Kajoba and Basena got a glorious opportunity to meet former Manchester United, England and Everton midfielder Phil Neville, currently the English Women’s National team coach, who had also come to consult. 
“Neville promised to avail a chance for a couple of Ugandan coaches to visit Manchester United and England training grounds soon to get more exposure in training methods,” he revealed.Kajoba and Basena will head back to US in July for mentorship in preseason training methodologies which the former says will change the ‘traditional’ ways they have been approaching matches. 
dbbosa@ug.nationmedia.com