Wednesday April 11 2018 KCCA - Masaka Secondary School aim to set trend with partnership Done deal. KCCA chairman Ashaba (2nd R) and Masaka SS head teacher Musoke putting pen to paper recently. PHOTO BY JB SSENKUBUGE In Summary Mpungu Musoke, the headmaster of Masaka SS, on the other hand also expressed joy and commitment to the cause. Advertisement By ELVIS SENONO 
KAMPALA. Occasionally, sportsmen set out to seek success both academically and in their respective sports disciplines.Domestically however, there is often little or no deliberate effort from either side in ensuring those athletes succeed in both spheres of life. But as reigning domestic league champions KCCA and Masaka SS signed a memorandum of understanding in Masaka, the emphasis was on making sure footballers succeed both academically and on the pitch. 
Beyond the game “This partnership is beyond the game of football, we are looking at preparing the football, academic and mindset of the player,” KCCA chairman Aggrey Ashaba stated upon the signing of the memorandum at the school.He then hailed the school that is fast becoming a regional powerhouse particularly in football and girls’ cricket for their efforts in educating sportsmen “The added advantage is that whatever we wanted to do as a club is what the administration of Masaka SS wanted to do. We will better our philosophy by imparting our way of doing things that is dignity, humility and fairness in this partnership,” he added. 
Expressing joy Mpungu Musoke, the headmaster of Masaka SS, on the other hand also expressed joy and commitment to the cause.“I am happy that this partnership has come to pass and that we now have a memorandum of understanding with the club. “We are committed to respecting this partnership and working with KCCA FC in unearthing fresh talent. This kind of relationship is a match made from heaven and also the fact that it sticks with the values of the school of football and education going hand in hand,” he told the students. 
essenono@ug.nationmedia.com