Govt procures machinery to reduce post-harvest losses Most farmers incur losses because of poor post-harvest practices Advertisement By BILL OKETCH 
LIRA- Government has procured agricultural equipment aimed at reducing post-harvest losses in Lango and Acholi sub-regions. The equipment, which includes metallic silos, cassava chippers, rice threshers and forage choppers, was recently procured with funding from the World Bank through Agricultural Technology and Agribusiness Advisory Services (ATAAS) project. 
While handing over the equipment at Ngetta Zonal Agricultural Research Development Institute (NZARDI) in Lira District last week, the commissioner for agricultural extension services in the ministry of Agriculture, Dr Patience Rwamigisa, said the beneficiaries will first be trained before they can use the equipment. 
Mr Alfred Kumakech, a research officer at NZARDI, said the equipment will be distributed to organised groups, from which other small scale farmers will benefit. 
“If a farmer has got fuel, he can go to the chairperson of any beneficiary group, pick the machine, put his own fuel and use it. For example, the cassava chipper can chop about 2,000 kilogrammes in a day,” Mr Kumakech said. 
He added that farmers can use the metallic silos to store their grains for even a year until when better market prices come up. “Because for maize, if you harvest within one month, weevils will have damaged more than 80 per cent and yet when you keep your grains well for even two months after harvest, the price can be double,” he said. 
He added: “So this means when farmers are losing their produce to post-harvest, they are also losing their income. So the idea is to minimise the post-harvest losses, double farmers’ household income and improve their livelihoods.” 
The research officer added that with the new technology, a farmer can dry their cassava within one hour and when they process it, they get quality flour, which can be sold at a high price. 
Lira District chairman Alex Oremo urged government to start thinking of immediate alternatives since the ATAAS project is coming to an end in June. 
“Or you intend to make it continue as we have struggled in Nusaf because agriculture is dynamic and it is always very demanding. So, we need to get the total core for the success of our farmers,” he said. 
Mr Oremo also decried pests and diseases, which are hampering production. 
“This fall armyworm; we would like you to put your foot down and overcome the threat so that we address the farmers’ concerns,” he said. President Museveni last month announced that he would donate 27,000 hand hoes to farmers in Dokolo District to boost their production and productivity. However, Dr Rwamigisa said such “outdated” tools cannot transform agriculture in the country. 
Key challenge “I have been telling people that I feel embarrassed to be driving a four-wheel drive car to go and supervise somebody using a hoe. It is really not acceptable, and I have challenged Makerere University; they have a department of agricultural engineering but they cannot address this simple thing. So we cannot continue relying on a hoe as a major tool of production,” Dr Rwamigisa said.The commissioner also decried the low budgetary allocation to the agricultural sector. 
The director of NZARDI, Dr Laban Turyagyenda, said many farmers have refused to transition from their traditional farming practices to modern ones. “Mindset change is still a problem. Some people are still stuck with their traditional varieties. When you bring the new varieties, they look at them not as good and even some of them are complaining of GMOs and when you ask them what it means, they don’t know,” he said. A genetically modified organism is a plant, animal, microorganism or other organism whose genetic makeup has been modified in a laboratory using genetic engineering or transgenic technology. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com