Wednesday April 11 2018 Falling Angara fish stock worries leaders Residents spread Angara fish to dry in the sun. The population of the delicious fish species has reduced on Albert Nile. FILE PHOTO Advertisement By JULIUS OCUNGI 
PAKWACH- Pakwach District leaders have expressed concern over the declining population of Alestes Baremose fish species, commonly known as Angara.Angara has high nutritional value and is craved by the people in northern Uganda.But authorities have warned that the fish species, which is critical to human food security, may go extinct in the near future unless drastic action is taken against overfishing and illegal use of fishing gears. 
The district chairperson, Mr Robert Osteen Omito, said the fish species is a source of income to many people in the district and its extinction threatens food security. 
He said unregulated fishing and use of illegal fishing gear on Albert Nile is to blame for the declining stock. “Government has failed to restrict fishing on Albert Nile and River Nile where this fish species is found. There are no fishing holidays on this river, so there are limited chances for the fish population to multiply,” said Mr Omito.He urged government to promote breeding of the Angara fish fingerlings. 
“If government can carry out research and embark on production of Angara fish fingerlings, it will be one of the ways this fish species will be protected. We do not want these species to go extinct from the river,” Mr Omito said. 
Over fishing Mr Michael Oloya, the district fisheries officer, observed that many fishermen on Albert Nile use the three-inch fishing nets instead of the recommended 4.5 inches. “We have a big challenge of illegal fishing gears being used on the river. This is because these fish species are on high demand on the market, so fishermen are willing to catch everything in water,” Mr Oloya said. 
He added that due to the declining fish stocks, many fishermen have turned to catching immature fish. 
Mr Oloya said demand for Angara fish extends to Democratic Republic of Congo and South Sudan.He added that since the protection of the river and fishing activities are in the hands of the Uganda People’s Defence Forces, the district is only left with the sensitisation role. 
Mr David Mugyenyi, the field coordinator for the aquaculture project at Gulu University Hoima branch, says government should introduce fishing holidays on the Nile. 
“Overfishing on the Nile is the main problem threatening the depletion of fish population. If government can come out with counter measures such as fish holidays, more fish will reproduce in the river,” Mr Mugyenyi said. 
Advice to leaders He also advised the Pakwach District authorities to enact by-laws to manage the water resources.Mr Mugyenyi said under the aquaculture project, they intend to set up hatcheries for Angara fish in Pakwach District by July next year in a move aimed at increasing the fish population. 
Mr Joseph Okwai, who has been fishing on Albert Nile for the last 15 years, said the Angara fish stocks have declined tremendously. Mr Okwai says he catches between three and 10 Angara fish daily unlike in the past when he would catch more than 30, adding sometimes he ends up with nothing at all after spending a whole night in the lake. 
“In the past, we used to have a lot of fish on this river but currently there is nothing; we are just surviving on a few catches. Our fellow fishermen are using bad nets, which is depleting fish species,” he says. According to Mr Okwai, a medium-sized Angara fish is sold at Shs15,000 while a big one costs between Shs25,000 and Shs30,000. He says the prices are high compared to a few years ago when a big fish was sold at Shs10,000. 
Government intervenes Last year, the government, through the Northern Uganda Social Action Fund phase three project [NUSAF III] funded by World Bank channeled Shs17.5 million for fish caging project in Pakwach District. 
A total of 11 fish farmer groups were selected under the initiative and 33 fish cages have since been established in Pakwach Town Council and Panyimur Sub-county. The initiative, according to Mr Alfred Odera Obol, the NUSAF II operation specialist, will help rejuvenate fish farming in the district.Albert Nile is a major source of fish for the communities in Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo but faces immense exploitation.The National Fisheries Resources Research Institute (NaFIRRI) reports put the total annual fish catches on Albert Nile as of July 2012 at 186 tonnes with an annual beach value of Shs580 million. 
Angara’s nutritional value Angara fish has protein and carbohydrates that are important in treatment of malnourished children and helpful for expectant mothers. Angara, mainly caught from the Albert Nile has in the past years been the target of most commercial and subsistence exploitation. 
The fish species is a delicacy among riparian communities of Pakwach, Nebbi, Zombo and Arua, districts in West Nile. About Shs14 billion is earned annually by fisherman on the Nile alone, with the largest portion of the income earned Tilapia, Mamba, Nile Perch and Angara, according to NaFIRRI. 
editorial@ug.naionmedia.com