MPs quiz Bahati over heavy public debt The minister of State for Planning, David Bahati. FILE PHOTO In Summary The report, capturing the performance of the economy in FY 2016/2017 placed the stock of external debt for both the public and private sector at 41.4 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) compared to 40.2 per cent in the preceding financial year. Other MPs including Nwoya District MP Lilly Adong, Mitooma Woman’s Jovah Kamateeka and Budadiri West MP Nandala Mafabi were concerned about delays to pay domestic debts, in preference of foreign debt. Advertisement By Moses Kyeyune 
PARLIAMENT: The minister of State for Planning, David Bahati faced a hard time explaining the country’s indebtedness, yesterday. 
The minister together with officials from the ministry of Finance Planning and Economic Development were appearing before the sectorial committee of parliament to explain mitigations for the country’s rising loans, most of which lie unutilised. 
He told the committee that the government has set aside Shs8.91 trillion to cater for payment of both domestic and foreign debts.He said that the first measure being implemented is a halt on loan requests without counterpart funding. 
“What we have done is to stop contracting new loans until we are sure there is counterpart funding from the government,” Bahati said.Mr Bahati was responding to concerns by the committee chairperson, Mr Henry Musasizi (NRM-Rubanda East) on why the government keeps borrowing in the presence of heavy commitments. 
“Why should you commit government, well aware that you do not have capacity to pay,” Mr Musasizi asked.The MPs were further angered by the Treasury Operations budget presented to the same committee, indicating a shs2.3 trillion sum allocated to payment of domestic debt, for the next financial year. 
Out of the figure, Shs120 billion is to cater for arrears, Shs388.4 billion for interest on treasury bills and Shs1.74 trillion for treasury bond costs while Shs1.5 billion is for listing fees and Bank charges. 
Another Shs1.3 trillion is earmarked for external debt payment with Shs360.8 billion meant for loan interest, 60.8 billion for commitment charges and Shs894 billion for external amortisation.Redemptions will take of Shs5.3 trillion out of which Shs3.99 trillion and Shs1.3 trillion is for treasury bills and treasury bonds respectively. 
In the State of the Economy Report issued March 2018, the Central Bank cautioned against increasing debt percentage, arguing that it poses a risk of higher exposure or failure to meet external debt obligations in case of exchange rate volatility and slow growth in exports. 
The Central Bank also raised concerns over the high debt, stating that it might drag the economic growth by discouraging public investment.Mr Anthony Okello (NRM -Kioga County) tasked the minister to explain why the country keeps borrowing yet there are idle loans. 
Perplexed, Mr Bahati asked his colleague, Mr Lawrence Semakula, the Accountant General to help offer explanations, but in vain.A report by the Parliament’s Committee on National economy, released last week indicated that Uganda requires 94 years to clear its existing stock of debt. 
READ: Uganda needs 94 years to clear debt 
The report, capturing the performance of the economy in FY 2016/2017 placed the stock of external debt for both the public and private sector at 41.4 per cent of gross domestic product (GDP) compared to 40.2 per cent in the preceding financial year. 
Other MPs including Nwoya District MP Lilly Adong, Mitooma Woman’s Jovah Kamateeka and Budadiri West MP Nandala Mafabi were concerned about delays to pay domestic debts, in preference of foreign debt. 
mkyeyune@ug.nationmedia.com