Mao warns UYD alumni on hidden agenda Democratic Party president Norbert Mao addressing media recently. FILE PHOTO In Summary Last week, UYD Alumni held a meeting at speke hotel in Kampala and unveiled a new strategy to ensure that all forces of change work together to create political change in the country. Alumni who attended the meeting include; Democratic party President Nobert Mao, Butambala MP Muwanga Kivumbi, Micheal Mabikke and Mathias Mpuuga. Advertisement By SHABIBAH NAKIRIGYA 
Democratic Party president Norbert Mao has warned the Uganda Young Democrats (UYD) alumni on their hidden agenda to obstruct the reconciliation process. 
While addressing the Media at their weekly press conference in Kampala yesterday, Mr Mao said that naturally, there is mutual suspicions and assured all the party members that if there is any body with a hidden agenda, soon or later will be exposed. 
“We have put our cards on the table and given them a chance to play the cards they know better because it is dangerous not to know quickly who are willing to die with you whenever you’re in a battle,” Mr Mao said. 
He added that they are doing this because it is a shame that DP has lost Kampala central yet it’s their stronghold. 
“We must stand shoulder to shoulder and have an extended line and above all these are about for people who believe in the struggle. This is not a war for everybody if you’re coward you stay home and we will not blame you.” 
Mr Mao added that DP’s policy has always been reconciliation. 
"I'm very pleased that many of the key players in some of the factions that for long were opposed to our leadership have taken a positive step,” Mao said 
“These are the groups of Suubi, TJ, Samuel Lubega and UYD. It’s a big relief that they have taken very important first step to recognize that we need to work together and to accept that the party has a leadership which they should recognize, respect and support,” Mr Mao said. 
Last week, UYD Alumni held a meeting at speke hotel in Kampala and unveiled a new strategy to ensure that all forces of change work together to create political change in the country. 
Alumni who attended the meeting include; Democratic party President Nobert Mao, Butambala MP Muwanga Kivumbi, Micheal Mabikke and Mathias Mpuuga. 
Mr Mao said that they have embarked on fresh struggles to have change and fight unprecedented corruption, insecurity, increasing murders and impunity in the current regime. 
snakirigya@ug.nationmedia.com