Kasekende versus Kisamba: Who is lying on the economy? Dr Louis Kasekende and DR Kisamba-Mugerwa In Summary Mr Mathias Mpuuga, the Masaka Municipality MP, challenged Dr Kasekende to tell Ugandans “how much of FDI (Foreign Direct Investments) came into the country in the last two years and how many jobs were created in key economic sectors. They speculated that Kasekende and his boss cooked the rosy GDP figures to give the poverty-stricken suffering Ugandans false hope of a good livelihood. Advertisement By YASIIN MUGERWA 
Kampala. The deputy governor of Bank of Uganda, Mr Louis Kasekende and the National Planning Authority (NPA) chairman, Dr Wilberforce Kisamba-Mugerwa, have traded contradicting verdicts on the status of the economy and the progress on the quest for a middle-income country by 2020. Dr Kasekende, who has been accused by some MPs and independent analysts of “telling lies” about the economy and “vending unrealistic figures” delivered an upbeat economic forecast, putting Uganda’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in the last six months of 2017 at 6.9 per cent. Mr Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile, the Bank of Uganda Governor, complicated matters yesterday when he issued a monitory policy statement for April 2018. The statement gave a different GDP growth rate. For instance, Mr Mutebile put the economic growth at 6.3 per cent in 2017 compared to 3 per cent in 2016. He cites a “robust economic growth in Financial Year 2017/18.” 
Gloom However, in a March 27 letter to Finance Minister Matia Kasaija and other government officials, Dr Kisamba indicated gloom on the economy and diminished the hope of Uganda achieving the lower middle-income status as had been envisioned under the National Development Plan II. Dr Kisamba indicated that his verdict was based on account of an unstable or weakening economy which has registered ‘unacceptable’ growth in the last three financial years.His position on the economy is disputed by Dr Kasekende’s April 6, statement where he insisted that “Uganda’s economic growth has rebounded strongly”. Some MPs described the discrepancy as “uncoordinated movements in government.” “What reason does Kasekende have to be optimistic about the health of the economy when the bulk of our people live a dog life, live in distress on account of poverty?” Opposition Shadow Attorney General, Wilfred Niwagaba asked. 
“I don’t know where Kasekende got the 6.9 per cent growth when the figures we have puts GDP growth at 4 per cent…Those figures are not accurate. In any case, what is the relevancy of Kasekende’s growth figures when our people cannot feel it in their pockets? May be because the Deputy Governor is well off and therefore unable to see or feel the stupidity of our economy and the suffering of our people,” Mr Niwagaba further added. 
Mr Edward Baliddawa Kafuufu, an economist and former legislator, reiterated Mr Niwagaba’s reservations about Dr Kasekende’s finding on the economy saying: “How can one say that the economy is doing well when the figures show something different? If the projected growth of 15 per cent has dropped to 4.0 per cent, if insufficient government collections are forcing government to even borrow to pay salaries; the export earnings are falling and the national debt is rising yet national productivity levels are declining; how can one say the economy is healthy and doing well?” 
Advised Mr Baliddawa and other economists advised Bank of Uganda and Ministry of Finance to stop painting false rosy pictures of GDP growth and instead focus on the challenges that are impeding or weakening the economy. He said there is urgent need to refocus government expenditures particularly away from unproductive activities or programmes which merely consumptive and relocate resources to generate production. However, Makerere Business School Board chairman Venansius Baryamureeba, dispelled claims that Mr Kasekende lied about the economy’s status.“Economy may be doing well but not at the rate that can enable Uganda achieve middle income status. Uganda’s current rate of population growth is higher than GDP growth and this is what Kisamba is saying. Kasekende is saying economy is doing well, which does not necessarily mean we shall reach the middle-income in 2020,” Prof Baryamureeba reasoned. However, Mukono Municipality MP Betty Nambooze and Mr Eddie Kwizera, an expert in strategic management, insisted Dr Kasekende lied about the economy. 
False hope They speculated that Kasekende and his boss cooked the rosy GDP figures to give the poverty-stricken suffering Ugandans false hope of a good livelihood. Mr Kwizera reminded Dr Kasekende and BoU Governor that last year, the country failed to achieve the projected 7 per cent GDP growth and witnessed a paltry 4 per cent. 
Although Dr Kasekende said growth was spread across the economy, with agriculture, industry and services all recording buoyant growth figures in the second half of 2017, Dr Kisamba says in his letter to Finance Minister Kasaija last month that the projected growth of 5.5 per cent against the envisaged 15 per cent confirms “it’s very unlikely” for Uganda to achieve the lower middle- income status. “The low economic growth performance for the last three years of NDPII implementation, implies that the country may not be able to achieve the lower middle income status by 2020,” Mr Kisamba wrote Kasaija and Parliament Speaker, Ms Rebecca Kadaga on March 27. 
Dr Kasekende, however, admitted that the economy suffered a downturn in 2016, recording slow growth, but insists “those problems are clearly now behind us”. Mr Mathias Mpuuga, the Masaka Municipality MP, challenged Dr Kasekende to tell Ugandans “how much of FDI (Foreign Direct Investments) came into the country in the last two years and how many jobs were created in key economic sectors. 
Domestic debt “You can never talk of a growing economy with a growing domestic debt, unpaid domestic arrears and collapsing banks,” Mr Mpuuga said, dismissing Kasekende’s claims. Mr Julius Kapwepwe, the director of Uganda Debt Network, says the fiscal journey from 2016/17 to 2020/21 suggests an average annual growth of 4.5 per cent far below 7 per cent between 2009/10 and 2014/15. Mr Kapwepwe said: “The untamed huge government borrowing appetite and escalating debt financing levels will undermine the gains and curtail private sector growth while eating away our meagre domestic revenue, add to low exports and reduced speed in public sector investments.” 
ymugerwa@ug.nationmedia.com