Total Uganda, Vivo Energy in expansion drive   
Total Uganda launched its Kyaliwajjala service station on Tuesday to add to the number of fuel centres for the company at a function held at Kyaliwajala in Kira Municipality, Wakiso district. This brings to 129 stations across the country. 
Speaking at the function, Florentin de Loppinot , the Managing Director at Total Uganda said such are some of company’s efforts to create employment opportunities for Ugandans as well as provision of a wide range of services and products. According to Jean-Christian Bergeron, the chairman Total Uganda, the new service station is part of the their global plan to ensure all their stations meet the highest quality and safety standards while offering a diversified range of products and bringing convenience to their customers. - Advertisement - 
Early this month, rival Vivo Energy Uganda opened seven new Shell service stations, bringing the total country network number to 140 service stations to date. The opening of the seven new stations was celebrated with a ceremony officiated by the Executive Vice President East & South Region for Vivo Energy Group , David Mureithi . It was held at Shell Kyengera. 
Speaking during the opening of the new sites David Mureithi said, “In a bid to become Africa’s most respected energy business, it is important that we are accessible to every customer. Since 2014, Vivo Energy has added 35 new Shell service stations to the Uganda Retail Network. This means more Ugandans have access to Shell fuels and lubricants, as well as other services available at these stations.” 
“At Vivo Energy we understand that customers are looking for more than just a fill-up when they drive to the Shell forecourts and it’s not just about the quality fuels and lubricants sold to the customers, but about delivering a complete service station experience. We are investing significantly to make this ambition a reality,” added Mureithi. Vivo Energy has also partnered with local and international restaurants to offer additional services to its customers across Africa, aimed at tapping into the growing middle class.