Journalists shun Katikkiro Mayiga over mistreatment Buganda Kingdom Premier Peter Mayiga. File photo In Summary The scribes say it has become a norm for the Kabaka’s guards to assault journalists who show up to cover events that are attended by the Kabaka Mr Jeff Lule, a reporter from the Vision Group accused the Mr Mayiga of turning a blind eye whenever journalists are assaulted by the guards Advertisement By James Kabengwa 
Kampala- A section of journalists have shunned Buganda Kingdom Premier Charles Pater Mayiga to protest the maltreatment occasioned to them by UPDF soldiers who guard Kabaka Ronald Muwenda Mutebi. 
On Wednesday, Mr Mayiga invited reporters for a photo opportunity after a press conference at the Kingdom seat at Bulange but was embarrassed when they turned down the invite accusing him of failing to address the beatings to concentrate on petty politics of posing for group photographs. 
“We want you to address the issue of mistreatment of journalist at events that are attended by the Kabaka’s and our security at the upcoming Kabaka’s birthday celebrations [on Friday at Masaka],” Ms Olivia Nabaggala, a journalist attached to Radio Sapientia said. 
But Mr Mayiga declined to comment saying the issue would be addressed in future which infuriated the journalists. 
Mr Mayiga perhaps underestimated the emotions of the journalists and decided to continue to the point where group photographs would be shot but no one followed him, forcing him to proceed to his office. 
Some reporters threatened to boycott covering Kabaka’s events until the barbarism of Kabaka’s guards is stopped.During the Kabaka’s Birthday Run on Sunday, Kabaka’s guards allegedly assaulted several journalists, which conduct which attracted public outcry. 
The scribes say it has become a norm for the Kabaka’s guards to assault journalists who show up to cover events that are attended by the Kabaka. 
Mr Jeff Lule, a reporter from the Vision Group accused the Mr Mayiga of turning a blind eye whenever journalists are assaulted by the guards.He said that he has documented a list of journalists who have been assaulted by the guards. 
These include Daily Monitor’s Stephen Wandera Ouma who was beaten at Kigo last year, Salt FM’s Robert Mutebi, Mr Abu Kisige and Ms Juliet Kasirye from the Vision Group. 
“Certain individuals in Kabaka’s Protection Unit need to be dragged to court. Their behaviour is incomparable to other protection units like the Special Forces Group [that guards President Yoweri Museveni] who are very civil,” Mr Lule said. 
Mr Sadab Kitatta from the Observer said that he may never cover events where Kabaka is a guest. 
“I took a personal decision to abandon coverage of Buganda events where the Kabaka is guest,” Kitatta says.But Mr Noah Kiyimba, the Kingdom spokesperson said it is not ta policy of Mengo to mistreat reporters. 
“Reporters must serve in a free environment and we condemn any acts where their rights are trampled on,” Mr Kiyimba said.Vision Group’s Meddie Musisi said there could be a plot by certain elements in Kabaka’s Protection Unit to misbehave so that they cause a decline in his popularity. 
“Our Kabaka cannot be amused by such behavior. My thinking is that certain elements are planted in the unit so that his reputation is damaged,” Mr Musisi said. 
Meanwhile, in the press conference, Mayiga conveyed Kabaka’s sincere appreciation to sponsors and organisers and those who participated in the run.“Kabaka is particularly appreciative since members of the public turned up in the cold, mud and rain to participate in the run. He thanks all of you,” Mr Mayiga said. 
He said that Kabaka’s birthday is a national unifier because it brings together people from all walks of life to work together. 
The commander of the guards, Capt Musaazi who has been photographed roughing up reporters was not available for a comment. jkabengwa@ug.nationmedia.com