Thursday April 12 2018 UTA set for new dawn Volleying home. Simon Ayella (L) and Boris Aguma are part of the national team preparing for the ITF Pro Circuits. PHOTOS by A. BABIRYE In Summary Tennis. The Association will, this morning, unveil a galaxy of sponsors that will bankroll the month-long ITF Uganda Pro-Circuit that is supported by ITF Grandslam Development Fund and has a Shs220m pot. Advertisement By INNOCENT NDAWULA 
KAMPALA. 
Cedric Babu, the chairman of Uganda Tennis Association (UTA), believes the game has finally found its footing, is in a good place and should now forge forward with positivity.After a seven-year hiatus, Uganda were re-admitted into the Confederation of African Tennis (CAT) and International Tennis Federation (ITF) after paying a lofty debt of affiliation and subscription fees and now Babu says the association will ‘hold the bull by its horns’.“We are back on track,” Babu, a former Davis Cup captain, said with a beaming smile. “Our readmission has come along with several benefits from the development perspective and grassroots. We have a tough four weeks of ITF Pro Circuits coming to Kampala, our juniors were in Rwanda for an African event, our national team has already played against Kenya and our ladies will travel for the first to play in Federation Cup which is a women’s equivalent to Davis Cup in Montenegro this month. We, however, need sponsors to help us facilitate these exciting but expensive programmes.” 
Four-legged circuit The four-legged ITF Uganda Pro Circuit that runs from April 28 – May 30 is estimated to have a cash pot of Shs220m and the UTA executive will, this morning, unveil their catalogue of sponsors that have confirmed their involvement.“We are also going to make a plea to other corporate companies to join us. The ITF Grandslam Development Fund will support us but we need more money. The ladies’ trip to Serbia is due on April 14 and the national team has to go to Nairobi to compete in the Davis Cup with several other teams in our pool,” added Babu.The tournaments will come as a benefit for Ugandan players as they carry world ranking points. UTA now operates a fully digitalised secretariat and plans are underway to have the local coaches and referees certified by ITF. The association’s Second Coming is surely taking shape. advertisement