UTL gets lease of life from govt agencies One of the UTL offices in Kampala. FILE PHOTO. In Summary Response. Out of 138 agencies written to, 67 complied to buy all Internet and other related services from UTL. The rest have up to end of this month. Advertisement By Thembo Kahungu Misairi 
Kampala. 
Non-compliant government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs) have been given up to end of this month to either switch to Uganda Telecom Limited (UTL) or write to President Museveni, explaining why they are unable to adhere to his directive. In a January 9 letter, the President gave the directive ordering all government institutions to procure all Internet and other related services from UTL and demanded a press report after three months. Mr Museveni said this will save the company from what he called a group of corrupt officials who ‘sucked’ UTL dry through self-enrichment with huge salaries and had plotted to devalue its assets worth Shs148 billion. In a March 15 letter to the Prime Minister, Dr Ruhakana Rugunda, Investment and Privatisation minister Evelyn Anite acknowledged the 250 MDAs under UTL, and pointed out that out of 138 agencies written to, 67 complied and 97 entities, including Ministry of Information Communication Technology and Uganda Broadcasting Corporation have not responded.“At least 250 MDAs have adhered to the presidential directive to source Internet services from UTL” Ms Anite said. When contacted yesterday, the UTL administrator, Mr Bemanya Twebaze, said: “Internet supplied by UTL is owned by UTL as a shareholder in West Indian Ocean Sub-Marine Cable Company (WIOCC) as such money paid by MDAs to UTL stays in our economy and further strengthens in addition to creating employment for Ugandans.”“We have written to all MDAs and the response is good. We are committed to supplying all MDAs with internet and the process of connecting government agencies is on-going. We have finalized upgrading our upstream connection 20Gps to ensure all MDAs are satisfied with olans to double it in the last quarter of this year,” he added.There are more than 600 MDAs, including hospitals and schools, commissions, statutory authorities and state enterprises. UTL officials are in process of connecting additional 177 government agencies and the rest according to sources they are being written to following the presidential directive. 
Work in progress While some of the non-compliant MDAs declined to comment on the delay, others said are still “sorting a few issues” with National Information and Technology Authority - Uganda (NITA-U), the former service provider, and insisted that they will beat the April deadline. The President is expected to receive the progress report in the first week of May, according to sources at the Office of Prime Minister.Although UTL remains under receivership, Mr Museveni said it has a lot of assets, including a shareholding of 9.13 per cent in WIOCC and that they have infrastructure to transmit and restore electronic data.Although the various government agencies have switched to UTL, the money for Internet services is still under NITA-U even as it emerged that there is no more reason why the ICT budget for the various MDAs should be deducted at source and sent to NITA. Sources say NITA-U is now paying UTL for these services since the president directed MDA to witch to UTL. The total bill stands at about Shs3b. advertisement