Five held over Boda boda, mobile money theft Kampala Metropolitan police spokesperson, Luke Owoyesigyire, confirmed the arrests. FILE PHOTO In Summary Police quoting the suspects’ statements said the thugs dismantle the stolen motorcycles into spare parts which they sale different shops in Kibuye, Katwe near Ring Road and Kisekka Business area. According to Police, the accused confessed to have stolen over 40 televisions sets from hotels across Katwe, Kabalagala and robbed close to Shs30m from ten mobile money dealers in the last four months. Advertisement By JOSEPH KATO 
KAMPALA. Police in Kampala have arrested five suspected Boda boda hit men and mobile money robbers. 
Three men suspected to be part of the group of thugs that hit Boda boda riders in Kampala city, Mukono and Wakiso districts were arrested on Tuesday by Katwe police after they were identified by victims of deadly missions. 
Kampala Metropolitan police spokesperson, Luke Owoyesigyire, identified the thugs currently detained at Katwe police station as; Mr Muzamir Katende, a resident of Namasuba, Mr Asuman Kiyemba, a Bujjuko dweller and Mr Robert Sserunjogi, of Kasenge in Nakawuka. 
“These suspects have willingly confessed to have been engaging in robberies and we have opened a case on SD REF 06/31/03/2018 at Katwe Police Station. They waylay the Boda boda riders at different spots on major roads where they clobber them with iron bars and take off with their motorcycles,” Mr Owoyesigyire said. 
Police quoting the suspects’ statements said the thugs dismantle the stolen motorcycles into spare parts which they sell at different shops in Kibuye, Katwe near Ring Road and Kisekka Business area. 
“We have recovered seven suspected stolen motorcycles in their possession from Luffuka Katwe and our teams are in collaboration with URA (Uganda Revenue Authority) so as to establish and confirm ownership details of the motorcycles,” he said. 
A fortnight ago, Sharif Nsubuga, a Boda boda rider in Kyanja in Nakawa Division, was found killed by unknown assailants and dumped in a bush three weeks after he had bought a new Bajaj boxer motorcycle. The incident came barely a month after another Boda boda rider was discovered killed in Kasubi Market. 
In other news, Police have two men accused of robbing mobile money operators and snatching hand bags from women on Kampala streets. The accused have reportedly been breaking into university students’ hostels and varnishing with their items in addition to attacking mobile money attendants. 
Mr Owoyesigyire said the arrests came after one of them tried to sell four used TV sets to a shopkeeper, who became suspicious and alerted the police. 
“The suspects have confessed in their statements that they have been stealing and selling electronic items like TV screens. They are going to be charged with burglary and theft,” he said. 
According to Police, the accused confessed to have stolen over 40 televisions sets from hotels across Katwe, Kabalagala and robbed close to Shs30m from ten mobile money dealers in the last four months. 
jkato@ug.nationmedia.com