Five pupils die in Arua and Sironko Advertisement By YAHUDU KITUNZI & FELIX WAROM OKELLO 
Sironko/Arua. Five pupils have died in two separate incidents in Sironko and Arua districts. Two of the pupils were electrocuted in Nakwira Village, Busulani Sub-county in Sironko District while another three suffocated in their house in Osu Village, Pangisa ward in Arua Municipality. Eyewitnesses said John Mazune, 7, and Jowel Weduku, 8, pupils of Makuyu Primary School, were electrocuted when they stepped on a live electric wire as they headed home from school on Monday evening.The Sironko District police commander, Mr Wilfred Bagenda, confirmed the incident. Mr Godfrey Wetaka, Mazune’s father, said: “They stepped on an electric wire at our neighbour’s home while they were coming back from school and they died on the spot.” 
Families demand actionMr Mazune said as bereaved families, they demand that police arrest the people who are tapping power illegally in the area. “We are requesting police and other security agencies to arrest people who have tapped power illegally, which has now caused death of my children,” he said.Mr Ronald Bulafu, Weduku’s father, collapsed upon hearing the news.The Sironko Resident District Commissioner, Mr Moses Wamoto Kigayi, said: “We have started investigating circumstances under which the deceased were electrocuted. Good enough, we have details of the person who tapped power illegally. Although residents have been sensitised on dangers of illegal power connections, they have remained adamant.”The Mbale Umeme branch manager, Mr Paul Ssempira, who regretted the incident, said the company’s preliminary investigations indicate there were underground illegal power connections where the children were electrocuted. 
Deaths “Previously, we were recording about 50 deaths every year due to electrocution in the Elgon region. But this year, we have only lost four people in the region,” Mr Ssempira said.In Arua, the regional police spokesperson, Ms Josephine Angucia, said no arrest has been made in connection with the death of the children. Ms Angucia named the deceased children as Sumaya Nassa, Shamim Nassa and Huda Nassa, all pupils of Arua Primary School. “We advise parents to always be vigilant with fire incidences because some of the houses are not properly ventilated. This was unfortunate incident which should not continue,” she said. Last month, a pregnant mother and her daughter were electrocuted while planting maize in Mbale District. advertisement