Thursday April 12 2018 Thugs invade Mukono villages, one killed Police take away the remains of the suspected thug who was burnt beyond recognition by the angry residents. PHOTO BY JESSICA SABANO In Summary Another victim Henry Makumbi, said thugs entered his house and ordered family members to kneel down as they carried television, hand bags and phones among other items. Mr Owoyesigirye said the body was taken to Mulago hospital for postmortem as investigations into the matter continue. Advertisement By Jessica Sabano 
Unidentified thugs attacked two villages in Mukono Municipality on Tuesday night and one was shot by Col Egesa while trying to enter his home in Dandira village. 
On Wednesday morning, the shot suspected thug was found by residents lying unconsciously near Col Egesa’s gate, dragged him to the bush and burnt him beyond recognition. 
The Kampala metropolitan Police spokesperson, Mr Luke Owoyesigirye, confirmed the incident, but said police were still trying to identify the deceased. 
Eye witnesses told this reporter that more than three thugs were trying to break into Col Egesa's home when he shot one and the rest took off. 
The thugs invaded seven homes in both Nabuti and Dandira villages using machetes and other equipment to break into houses to steal money and other items. 
Ms Recheal Nambooze, a resident in Dandira village said three men entered her house and asked her for money then took off with laptops, phones and other items. 
"It was at around 2:00am when I heard people hitting my door and I woke up, prayed with my family members until they entered," Ms Nambooze said. 
“After entering, they ordered us not to make any alarm and took whatever they wanted,” she added. 
Another victim Henry Makumbi, said thugs entered his house and ordered family members to kneel down as they carried television, hand bags and phones among other items. 
Mr Owoyesigirye said the body was taken to Mulago hospital for postmortem as investigations into the matter continue. advertisement