Army gives Balalo 12 days to vacate northern Uganda Some of the animals belonging to Balalo in West Nile region. PHOTO BY MARTIN OKUDI Advertisement By PATRICK EBONG 
LIRA- The Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) has issued a 12-day ultimatum to pastoralists commonly known as Balalo to withdraw from northern Uganda or face forceful eviction. 
The UPDF 5th Division spokesperson, Maj Telesphor Turyamumanya, told Daily Monitor on Tuesday that the herdsmen have up to April 22 to peacefully withdraw from Lango, Acholi and West Nile regions. 
“The eviction is being conducted by the army with assistance from police. By April 22, we expect all the Balalo to have evacuated the entire northern and West Nile regions,” Maj Turyamumanya said. 
This ultimatum comes after President Museveni on March 22 directed the UPDF 4th Division commander, Brig Emmanuel Kanyesigye, to spearhead the peaceful eviction of the herdsmen. 
Residents have continously complained of Balalo invading their farm lands and their animals destroying the residents’ crops. 
The exercise According to Maj Turyamumanya, so far, more than 35,000 head of cattle have crossed Karuma bridge as the Balalo return to their ancestral land. He revealed that the eviction has been conducted in four phases. The first phase was launched in Gulu and covered the districts of Nwoya, Gulu, Amuru and Adjumani. The second phase was conducted in Kitgum, Lamwo, Agago and Pader districts. The third phase covered Arua, Moyo, Yumbe, Koboko, Maracha, Pakwach and Nebbi. 
The last phase of the eviction which was launched last Friday, is being implemented in Akokoro, Apac District. 
“On Monday, 10 trucks of cattle from West Nile region crossed Packwach and Karuma bridges. The exercise is going on well. The UPDF and police have been warned against harassing the pastoralists during the eviction,” Maj Turyamumanya said. 
Upon the expiry of the deadline, Maj Turyamumanya said they would inspect and continue monitoring the areas to ensure that all the animals are removed and that the Balalo do not return. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com 