District seeks govt help over delayed staff recruitment Mr Tom Marembo, The Mbarara DSC chairperson Advertisement By FELIX AINEBYOONA 
MBARARA- Eight people, who passed interviews for jobs advertised by Mbarara Municipal Council (MMC), have not been given appointment letters one-and-a-half months after their names were forwarded to the authorities. 
This has caused apprehension among those who were selected for the jobs. The Mbarara District Service Commission (DSC) chairperson, Mr Tom Marembo, says they issued instrument of successful applicants to MMC on February 23, which should have been responded to or implemented within 30 days but no action had been taken by Monday. 
According to Mr Marembo, MMC last year requested the commission to carry out recruitment exercise for eight posts and they ran job adverts on November 21, 2017. 
After interviews were conducted, those who qualified were given notification letters and a minute sent to MMC on February 23 but they have not been given appointment letters. 
The eight positions are; deputy town clerk, office attendant, senior veterinary officer, information technology officer, town agent, nursing officer, agricultural officer and personal secretary. 
Mr Marembo says the human resource manager and town clerk MMC should have issued appointment letters to the successful candidates by now. The commission is concerned that if the matter is not resolved soon, taxpayers will lose Shs14 million that was spent on the recruitment and that government may spend the same amount to repeat the exercise. Those who have notifications of appointment are likely to sue and be compensated if they win the case. “We ask Ministry of Local Government to intervene before the matter goes out of hand so as government money is not lost,” says Mr Marembo.He adds: “Our worry as service commission is that people who were given notification of appointment may be demoralised if they are not subsequently offered appointment letters by the responsible officers.” 
But the MMC human resource officer, Ms Jackeline Masamba, says through the town clerk, she requested the DSC to carry out recruitment to fill the critical human resource gaps. She has also been serving as deputy town clerk since the post has been vacant for some time. Ms Masamba said when the recruitment minute from DSC reached her desk, she could not sign it because deputy town clerk position is above her as human resource manager. She therefore waited for the town clerk, who was on leave, to return and sign the appointments. 
She said she passed on the task to the Town Clerk, Mr Edward Lwanga, when he came from leave early last month. But Mr Lwanga said he will not discuss the matter in the press. 
“You quote what the district service commission told you and when it comes to the town clerk say he said he does not want to discuss issues of human resources in papers period,” Mr Lwanga said on Monday. 
Successful candidates speak out 
Those who were given notification of appointment want to know their fate. 
“We have not yet received our appointments despite having been issued with notification of appointments. We think that maybe there were competing interests at the municipal council,’’ one of those who passed the interviews said. 
Another applicant plans to sue the town clerk. He said the town clerk keeps referring them to records department where they also refer him to the town clerk’s office. 
“I am totally tired of this confusion. We don’t know what our fate is ever since we were notified. If this continues, I will sue the municipal leadership,’’ he said. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com