Rehmah Kasule; winner of 13th edition of Islamic Development Bank’s Prize bags $25000 April 12, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Ugandan entrepreneur Rehmah Kasule , is one the winners of the 13th edition of the Islamic Development Bank’s Prize for women’s contribution to development . 
The award was handled to her recently in Tunis during the Annual Meeting of the IsDB Group Board of Governors. Mrs Kasule was recognized for her work as a peace-builder under the Rising Stars Mentoring Program that was launched with funding from U.S. Mission Uganda . The Islamic Development Bank established the IDB Prize for Women’s Contribution to Development in 2006 to draw international attention to the vital role women play in developing their communities and the world. - Advertisement - 
Mrs. Rehma Kasule, founder of Century Entrepreneurship Development Agency (CEDA) received $25000 to support her community work. Speaking on the award, Mrs. Kasule stated: “This award is a symbol of the blessings that I receive for the sacrifices to make the world a better place. This Award is not for me, it is for the dedicated youth ambassadors and mentors, and the young women in post-conflict communities that keep dreaming despite the challenges that surround them.” 
“I will use the prize to produce peace edutainment messages and strengthen interreligious dialogue in schools. I am more energized to take up bold and innovative steps to promote peace education for the youth. I thank IsDB for this honour.” She concluded. 
Criteria for selecting winners The general criteria applied in selecting and assessing nominations for the Prize for both individuals and organizations include the following: 
Impact Individuals and organizations nominated should exhibit projects that have contributed to the improvement of the socio-economic status and well being of society. 
Creativity Individuals and organizations nominated should have projects/activities that are outstanding, innovative and unique 
Outreach Individuals and organizations nominated should have mechanisms for expanding their projects/activities to surrounding areas to ensure their services are offered to as many beneficiaries as possible. 
Sustainability Individuals and organizations nominated should have projects/activities that are sustainable 
Selection Committee The Selection Committee is composed of five distinguished women. Members are annually chosen and selected based on their extensive experience in the field of the related theme and topics. The committee is comprised of members from the IDB Women’s Advisory Panel and subject specialist. - Advertisement - 