Kenya's Daystar University closed indefinitely after unrest Students walk out of Daystar University. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary The learners have raised several grievances, including poor standards of courses, lack of value for money, poor facilities and restrictions on the transfer of credits. On Monday, unidentified men were arrested at the campus as they attempted to evict a student leader. A video shared on social media showed about five men manhandling a student before a heated exchange ensued. Advertisement By Monitor correspondent 
Daystar University has been closed indefinitely after days of student unrest. 
In a notice to students and staff, the Senate on Thursday shut the university's Nairobi and Athi River campuses and ordered all learners and workers to vacate by noon. 
MEETING 
International students residing on Athi River campus were asked to vacate and report to a designated desk in Nairobi by 2pm. 
On Wednesday night, the Nairobi Campus turned into a war zone after police stormed and lobbed teargas at protesting students following a failed meeting between their leaders and the Senate. 
The two parties were scheduled to discuss an audit report on the university’s financial management. 
Students involved in the protests sought redress on the matter, saying the institution should provide information on the scrutiny. 
GRIEVANCES 
Police in full combat gear struck as some students met on the seventh floor of the DAC Building to discuss issues that have seen the learners boycott classes and turn against the management. 
The learners have raised several grievances, including poor standards of courses, lack of value for money, poor facilities and restrictions on the transfer of credits. 
A communications student, for instance, decried a lack of studio and other necessary equipment to facilitate their studies. 
Another said: "Many programmes lack adequate facilities yet the university has sunk Sh40 million into the establishment of a law school, which to date, has not admitted a single student." 
The university's management has not responded to the complaints in its media releases. 
Speaking to NTV, student body president Alloys Otieno on Wednesday said the senate had initially invited their association in order to discuss the demands they had tabled. 
“It is unfortunate that we were sitting in for a dialogue with the senate to try and find a way on how to lift the suspensions and find a way forward for the university,” said Mr Otieno. 
“A few individuals, who are outsiders and are unhappy with this sitting, want the forensic report that we had asked (for) not to come out.” 
UNREST 
As the meeting was going on, he said, police came in kicked them out of the campus. 
“They broke doors and teargassed us. They ordered us to surrender by lifting our hands and demanded that we immediately vacate the premises,” he said. 
Another student Chris Munene added that the acting VC Timothy Wachira could not produce the audit report because it accuses three senior staff members the students want fired of embezzling funds. 
On Thursday, April 5, the students boycotted classes to protest the leadership of Dr Wachira. 
There has been rising unrest at the institution after students demanded the resignation of Dr Wachira over alleged mismanagement. 
On Monday, unidentified men were arrested at the campus as they attempted to evict a student leader. 
A video shared on social media showed about five men manhandling a student before a heated exchange ensued. 
The Wednesday evening drama was not the first time Daystar students faced full force of the police. 
In 2017, the tension hit fever pitch at its Athi River campus as students aired their grievances, seeking changes in the institution’s administration, only to be met with fully kitted General Service Unit officers. advertisement