Makerere University Vice Chancellor Prof Barnabas Nawangwe. PHOTO BY ALEX ESAGALA Advertisement By Christine Kasemiire 
KAMPALA. 
Makerere University Vice Chancellor, Prof Barnabas Nawangwe, has defended the reforms his new administration is initiating, saying the changes are to ensure both staff and students are disciplined. While addressing guests at the Makerere University main hall during a United Bank for Africa’s Thought Leadership forum on the theme Africapitalism and Entrepreneurship, the Vice chancellor who has been in office for eight months now said he is aware of people’s criticism of his actions in reforming the University but maintains that he will not stop until he attains discipline. “Many people have been saying that I'm doing funny things here, one newspaper even drew main building upside down and put my photo there and said I have turned Makerere upside down, one of the things Mr Tony Elumelu discussed was discipline,” he said. He went on to say that when he became vice chancellor, he came with a grand program to firstly achieve discipline from lecturers, other staff and students. The professor blamed Africa’s deteriorating economy on its lack of discipline saying other continents have surpassed it, even with its umpteen potential to grow. Citing an act by Makerere students to remove people with the desire to strike over an errant student, Professor Nawangwe said he was proud of who the varsity students are becoming. “I'm very happy, yesterday, without me knowing, Makerere students chased hooligans who were trying to create chaos over an errant student who went on television and admitted to the act,” he said. Furthermore, he said based on intelligence got from Whatsapp groups of university students, he now knows that many students do not want to entertain hooliganism in Makerere. Meanwhile, the several students engaged in discussions with the Chairman United Bank for Africa and founder of the Tony Elumelu Foundation, Mr Tony Elumelu, who gave tips on how to achieve success. In his advice, he told Ugandans to work hard, form progressive partnerships, comply with taxes and save if they want to succeed. Mr Elumelu is on an East African tour to discuss entrepreneurship, infrastructure financing with the Presidents of Uganda and Kenya. advertisement