Thursday April 12 2018 BRAC founder awarded 2018 Lego Prize for outstanding contribution to the lives of children Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, founder and chairperson of BRAC receives the prestigious 2018 LEGO Prize. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary The prize is accompanied by a cash award of USD 100,000 (approximately Shs370,000 million), which will be used to strengthen BRAC’s support for children living with neuro-developmental disabilities and their families. Since launching its non-formal education programme in Bangladesh in 1985, more than 11 million children have graduated from BRAC’s primary and pre-primary schools. BRAC has set up more than 1,400 play-based early childhood development centers across Bangladesh, Tanzania and Uganda, where close to 40,000 children aged 1 to 5 years are presently enrolled. Advertisement 
Sir Fazle Hasan Abed, founder and chairperson of BRAC, has been awarded the prestigious 2018 LEGO Prize in recognition of his extraordinary contribution towards improving children's lives and their opportunities to play, learn and develop. 
The LEGO Foundation, a Danish corporate foundation, has been awarding this prize since 1985 to individuals and organisations who are committed to the lives of children and are champions of learning through play. The prize is accompanied by a cash award of USD 100,000 (approximately Shs370,000 million), which will be used to strengthen BRAC’s support for children living with neuro-developmental disabilities and their families. 
From the beginning of his career and the establishment of BRAC, Sir Fazle has viewed education as a crucial catalyst for change. He firmly believes that it is about more than just schools and books, and constant innovation is a cornerstone of 
BRAC’s approach Since launching its non-formal education programme in Bangladesh in 1985, more than 11 million children have graduated from BRAC’s primary and pre-primary schools. BRAC has set up more than 1,400 play-based early childhood development centres across Bangladesh, Tanzania and Uganda, where close to 40,000 children aged 1 to 5 years are presently enrolled. In Uganda, there are currently 80 play labs in Karamoja, Luwero and Wakiso with a total of 2400 children registered. 
In these centres, pre-school children have access to age-appropriate play materials, a play-based curriculum, and play spaces that ensure their holistic development. 37 more play labs are scheduled to be opened this quarter. “It is an honour to receive the esteemed LEGO Prize. Every child deserves the opportunity to grow and develop. This generous financial contribution will support the holistic development of an underserved group of children in Bangladesh with special needs,” said Sir Fazle Hasan Abed. “At BRAC, we pride ourselves on taking an innovative approach to early childhood development and education and share the LEGO Foundation’s passion for learning through play. Through our Play Lab programme, we have seen first-hand the power it can have in a child’s development,” he added. Finnish educator and scholar Pasi Sahlberg, educationist and president of Reggio Children Carla Rinaldi, and founder of Right to Play International Johann Koss are among the earlier winners of the LEGO Prize. 
In addition to its early childhood development centres, BRAC in Uganda operates a scholarship programme in partnership with the MasterCard Foundation sending 5000 academically gifted but economically marginalized children to secondary school. BRAC has also established the empowerment and livelihood for adolescent girls (ELA) programme which is the largest youth empowerment platform in Uganda. 
Through 1,200 clubs, 36,829 girls have received training in life skills and 34, 292 girls received financial literacy training. The primary goal of the programme is to assist the girls to achieve greater economic and social empowerment thus becoming agents of change in their families and communities. advertisement