Thursday April 12 2018 Police pay Shs10m to Masaka residents for killing suspect The deceased, identified as Muhammad Kiddawalime was allegedly with Musa Galiwango, who recently escaped from the chief magistrate's court in Masaka. PHOTO BY GERTRUDE MUTYABA Advertisement By GERTRUDE MUTYABA MASAKA. The leadership of the Uganda Prisons Services and Police in Masaka Sub Region have rewarded communities in Kalungu District, that killed a murder suspect in a mob on Monday night. The deceased, Muhammad Kiddawalime is one of two murder suspects – the other being Musa Galiwango –who escaped from Masaka High Court on March 1 and eluded re-arrest until he resurfaced on Monday. Latif Zaake, the Masaka Regional Police Commander on Thursday revisited the crime scene at Mukoko Village in Bukulula Sub-County and delivered Shs10 million as bounty which the government, specifically Uganda Prisons Service promised to whoever helped security re-arrest the fugitives following their escape from court. In the wee hours of Monday, three Police officers from Bukulula Police Station and a mob of residents foiled a robbery at the house of Ms Resty Nakyambadde, a midwife at Bukulula Health Centre IV. They gave chase to Kiddawalime and lynched him. READ: Machete attacks: One suspect killed by mob The mob was made up of a response team of residents who included crime preventers. Police have identified six people including Steven Twinomugisha, the in-charge of Bukulula Police station as the key figures who helped to kill Kiddawalime, a notorious suspect that has been on the wanted list. Mr Zaake handed them the package as appreciation for their contribution. The other beneficiaries are; Sgt Venance Mugyenyi; crime preventers Mr Godfrey Kafeero, Mr Kyakuwa Mayanja and Mr Matia Mugejja; and Resty Nakyambadde, a victim of the burglary. Each received Shs1.6m. While handing over the money, Mr Zaake observed that police does not regret the killing of the suspect, who he said was dangerous to the community and had bothered security agencies. “I urge you to look for the remaining suspect [Musa Galiwango] because he is also equally dangerous. We still have another bounty for anyone who will help us recapture him,” he said. Meanwhile on Wednesday evening, the Commissioner General of Prisons, Johnson Byabashaija, who delivered the bounty to police said the progress made in putting Kiddawalime ‘out of action’ is a manifestation that the community is now vigilant towards fighting crime. “We are so optimistic that even the remaining fugitive will also be re-captured given the high level of vigilance,” he said. RELATED: Police defend mob action on Masaka fugitive He also revealed that they were in talks with the Judiciary to allow them present high profile suspects before court with their handcuffs on, to prevent them from fleeing like Kiddawalime and Galiwango did. Attacks on people’s homes have swept through Masaka Sub region for the last two years and in some instances the attackers first drop anonymous leaflets threating to kill or harm individuals. Nearly 250 suspects have since been arrested in connection with the attacks. Majority have since been arraigned before court for prosecution and some released. This situation has created fear and panic among residents in the area forcing many traders in townships around the sub region to close their shops as early as 7pm to avoid being robbed. Despite security agencies stepping up joint operations in the sub region more people continue to be killed by unknown assailants. advertisement