President Museveni commissions Kiryandongo Hospital President Museveni and First Lady Janet tour the hospital. PPU PHOTO Advertisement By Monitor Reporter 
President Yoweri Museveni has commissioned Restoration Gateway Hospital in Bedmot village near Karuma Town in Kiryandongo District in the Bunyoro Sub-Region. The full service facility offers in and outpatient medical care. The facility that was established by Dr. David Tim McCall and his wife Janice employs both local and foreign medical personnel. President Museveni, who was accompanied by the 1 st Lady and Minister of Education and Sports, Hon. Janet Museveni, commended the hospital for the services and noted that with the right support, the facility will have the capacity to handle and treat critical surgeries of the heart, kidneys and brain as the facility operates in partnership with Baylor Scott and White Health Care System, one of the top healthcare systems in the United States of America. He said that this would save Ugandans from seeking such specialized medical care from India. "You have a potential of a gold mine here in terms of the health sector. Mr and Mrs McCall followed the teaching of Jesus and came and followed this project. It is a good project that is confined around health care, education and capacity building," the President said. Mr. Museveni called on Christian leaders to emulate the example set by the founders of the Kiryandongo-based medical facility and influence people through good deeds as opposed to mere words. "The Bible says let your light shine before men that they see your good deeds and praise your Father in heaven. These people have done a great job," he noted. President Museveni pledged support to the Restoration Gateway healthcare project by ensuring electricity supply so that the facility stops dependence on generators as main source of energy and to tarmac the route leading to the facility. Mr. Museveni advised the residents of Karuma in particular and Kiryandongo district in general to embrace the 4-acre production model so that they are empowered to fight against household poverty. In her brief remarks, the 1 st Lady thanked Restoration Gateway organization by giving hope to the orphans through the establishment of a home to live in. "The first time I came here in 2012, I could see potential and could tell that what was going to happen here was going to be great. I am very amazed by what I see. Uganda is grateful to have you," she said. advertisement