Ugandan, Jessica Nabongo set to become first black woman to visit every Country in the World   
Jessica Nabongo has lived on four different continents. The 33-year-old Detroit native, who is of Ugandan descent, has always been attracted to different countries and cultures. In late March, she announced she was on a mission to become the first black woman to travel to every country in the world. 
Nabongo has visited 106 out of the 195 United Nations member countries, and she aims to complete her 89 remaining visits before May 15, 2019, which is also her 35th birthday. “I am not new to travel,” says Nabongo . The Millennial first went abroad when she was six years old, and since then has lived on four continents in five countries. - Advertisement - 
If she succeeds, she’ll be the first black woman to do so, as well as the first Ugandan. Born and raised in Detroit, Michigan, Nabongo is an American with dual citizenship, as her parents emigrated to the United States from Uganda. 
“I want to show that black people travel. I’m representing America and also Uganda,” Nabongo told Forbes. She hopes to show “little black and brown girls around the world to know that they can travel.” 
As she prepares for her travels, Nabongo will be putting her full-time job as the founder of travel agency Global Jet Black on pause. Though she will remain the head of the company, she will not be as heavily involved in the company’s daily operations. In the meantime, Nabongo will raise an estimated $133,500, which she thinks will be necessary to finish her country visits in the allotted time. To do so, Nabongo started a GoFundMe, where people can show their support. “People have already been like, ‘how can we help, what can we do?’” Nabongo told the publication. “People want to see me win and that has been humbling.” 
One of the core components of her journey to make history is to prove Africans can travel and engage with other cultures, so she refuses to use her American passport in her ventures. Nabongo has dual citizenship in Uganda and the United States but will solely use her Ugandan passport.“A lot of people don’t think of Africans as a consumer, they just think charity or baby,” Nabongo said. “I want immigration to see, ‘hey Ugandans are tourists [too].’” 
Though she sometimes faces difficulties using only her Ugandan passport, such as when she was held up for over an hour at an airport in the Philippines, sticking with her African identity has proven limitless in value. Forbes reports Nabongo was recently traveling in Indonesia when an immigration official asked to take a picture with her because he found her to be strikingly beautiful. 
“Those are amazing experiences. There is racism in the world, there just is. That is what history has left us with,” said Nabongo. “But throughout my travels I am left with the fact that most people are good.” - Advertisement -