Friday April 13 2018 Kampala’s proposed 2018/19 budget at a glance Ms Betti Kamya, the Kampala minister, says government is financially constrained to meet all budgetary demands of all ministries and government agencies. PHOTO BY RACHEL MABALA In Summary Divisions. The city has five divisions. They are; Kampala Central, Rubaga, Kawempe, Makindye and Nakawa. Road network. Kampala city is covered by a 2110-kilometre road network but only 578 kilometres are paved. Technical team. KCCA currently has 1133 employees of which only 391 are permanent while 742 are temporary. All these employees are paid handsomely. Political leadership. Councillors altogether are about 350 and they are all entitled to monthly emoluments which are paid by KCCA. Health facilities. KCCA health facilities are; Kisenyi HC IV, Kiswa HC III, Kawaala HC III, Kitebi HC III, Komamboga HC III, Kisugu HC III, Bukoto HC III, and City Hall HC II. Although Kiruddu and Kawempe health facilities are run by KCCA, they are currently managed by Mulago Referral Hospital. Schools. There are 79 government aided primary schools in Kampala which are managed by KCCA. Budget projections. KCCA has also slashed funding for the directorate of revenue collection from Shs 3.69b in 2017/18 to Shs2.98. The funding will cater for carrying out property valuation in the city and general collection of revenue. For instance, KCCA’s projected revenue collection from Non-Tax Revenue (NTR) for 2017/18 which ends in June, is Shs122.80b. Collection. However, from the period between July and December 2017, KCCA collected Shs35.65b against a target of Shs56.57b, giving a shortfall in collections of Shs20.91b. This represents a half year FY2017/18 performance of 63 per cent. Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA 
KAMPALA. Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) have proposed a new budget for the Financial Year 2018/2019 projected at Shs479.94b compared to last year’s Shs337b, highlighting a Shs142b increment.In its budget estimates submitted to Parliament early this month, KCCA prioritised the construction and rehabilitation of city roads and improvement of the drainage system to mitigate occasional flooding which has for long plagued Kampala.Overall, according to the planned budget estimates, Shs170.96b would be realised from government grants and Shs34.90b from the Uganda Road Fund (URF). 
The Authority expects to get Shs157.26b external funding for the second Kampala Institutional and Infrastructural Development Project (KIIDP-2) and Shs116.82b as projected Non-Tax Revenue (NTR). KIIDP-2 is funded by World Bank. This brings the total budget to Shs479.94b 
The directorate of engineering and technical services will take the lion’s share with a staggering Shs257.05b from Shs259.98 in 2017/18, followed by the directorate of administration and human resource, whose budget was increased from Shs88.55b in 2017/18 to Shs90.42b, if the allocations are approved by Parliament. 
Under the engineering budget, KCCA will construct and improve roads in the city and also improve the drainage system.Mr Kennedy Okello, the KCCA’s chairperson for engineering and technical services committee, said for Kampala’s economy to grow, infrastructure must be given priority because it is a fulcrum on which all businesses rotate. 
Highest percentage “That’s why the engineering department has been allocated 53 per cent of the total budget because we must construct more roads and also upgrade the drainage channels,” he said. Currently, there are ongoing road constructions in the city with signalised junctions to improve urban mobility. Kampala city is covered by a 2110-kilometre road network but only 578 kilometres are paved. 
KCCA recently halted the scheduled road construction projects over lack of funds, arising fears that World Bank may be forced to withdraw their funding since government’s commitment is not forthcoming.In the 2017/18 budget, the city received Shs337b to cater for all the 11 directorates to dispense services in all the five divisions of Kampala; Kampala Central, Rubaga, Kawempe, Makindye and Nakawa. 
The directorates are; administration and human resource, physical planning, education and social services, engineering and technical services, treasury services and legal affairs.Others are; Gender community services and production, Internal Audit, Revenue collection, Public health services and environment, and the executive director’s office. 
Although city leaders have previously demanded for a bigger budget to enable them plug the already existing funding gaps, Ms Betti Kamya, the Kampala minister, says government is financially constrained to meet all budgetary demands of all ministries and government agencies.“It’s true that city leaders have always demanded a bigger budget but this is impossible for now because the President told cabinet that government is prioritising development of infrastructure which will improve the country’s economic growth,” she says.She appealed to KCCA’s political and technical teams to ensure that all revenue sources are exploited to supplement the city’s budget. When the infrastructural works are done, the minister says, the city budget will be increased in the subsequent years. 
Sarah Kanyike, the deputy Lord Mayor, said that being the face of the country, the city budget ought to be increased to at least 4 per cent of the 60 per cent revenue which the city alone contributes to the Gross Domestic Product. 
The budget for the human resource directorate will cater for salaries of staff, medical expenses and other related administrative costs.KCCA currently has 1133 employees of which only 391 are permanent while 742 are temporary. All these employees are paid handsomely.The budget for public health services and environment has been reduced almost by half from Shs37.74b in 2017/18 to Shs19.32b. 
This money will be used to pay salaries for health workers in all KCCA facilities, purchase of protective wear, and maintenance of city public toilets, Kiteezi landfill, and mortuary and immunisation campaigns among others.KCCA health facilities are; Kisenyi HC IV, Kiswa HC III, Kawaala HC III, Kitebi HC III, Komamboga HC III, Kisugu HC III, Bukoto HC III, and City Hall HC II. Although Kiruddu and Kawempe health facilities are run by KCCA, they are currently managed by Mulago Referral Hospital. 
Education The budget for the directorate of education and technical services has been increased from Shs37.96b in 2017/18 to Shs46.28b.This money will be spent on teachers’ salaries, infrastructural development of all city schools under KCCA, curriculum delivery and school inspection, sports development and stocking Kampala Library, among others. There are 79 government aided primary schools in Kampala which are managed by KCCA. 
However, these schools have been grappling with funding challenges over the years. Majority of these schools lack land titles hence the increased budget will help to fill such gaps. 
Political governance The budget for political governance in Kampala city has been reduced from Shs17.87b in 2017/18 to Shs15b. This money will cater for salaries of political leaders, and their capacity building trainings.The political leadership in the city is headed by the Lord Mayor while all the five divisions of the city are headed by mayors, with councillors both at City Hall and at the divisions. 
Councillors altogether are about 350 and they are all entitled to monthly emoluments which are paid by KCCA.The directorate of legal affairs has had its budget slashed from Shs12.40b in 2017/18 to Shs12.19b.This allocation, according to KCCA’s output for 2018/19, will cater for costs related to compensation to third parties, purchase of uniforms, Law enforcement officers, trade order enforcement and prosecution, among others. 
Daily Monitor understands that KCCA is currently choking on court debts that has left the directorate broke.However, this directorate has previously been accused especially by the city leaders for allegedly colluding with the complainants to share the compensation, a claim they strongly deny. 
KCCA has also slashed funding for the directorate of revenue collection from Shs 3.69b in 2017/18 to Shs2.98.The funding will cater for carrying out property valuation in the city and general collection of revenue.For instance, KCCA’s projected revenue collection from Non-Tax Revenue (NTR) for 2017/18 which ends in June, is Shs122.80b. However, from the period between July and December 2017, KCCA collected Shs35.65b against a target of Shs56.57b, giving a shortfall in collections of Shs20.91b.This represents a half year FY2017/18 performance of 63 percent. However, KCCA’s NTR for 2017/18 is likely to drop following the reduction in tax rates for the informal sectors by the president.Physical planning has also suffered a budget cut from Shs3.46b in 2017/18 to Shs3.02b. However, this funding only comes from NTR because government doesn’t allocate any penny for Kampala’s physical planning. 
According to the planned input, this money will among others, be used to survey and secure all public assets including schools and open spaces, manage and process building plans and implementation of the city Address Modal among other activities. 
However, the low funds allocated to physical planning has since raised eyebrows among city leaders who accuse government of failing to recognize physical planning.Sarah Kanyike, the deputy Lord Mayor, said that being the face of the country, the city budget ought to be increased to at least 4 percent of the 60 percent revenue which the city alone contributes to the Gross Domestic Product.“In the next budget, we shall lobby MPs and other stake holders to ensure that funding for Kampala is made a priority,” she said. 
The funding allocated to the Gender directorate has been maintained at Shs8.9b. This money will be used to support city National Agricultural Advisory Services programme, support youth, women and disability groups, support Kyanja Agricultural resource centre and management of city markets.The corporate support services which fall under the executive director’s office has a budget increment from Shs5.44b in 2017/18 to Shs6.31b. 
This will cater for procurement and Assets related costs, planning and budget engagements, and research and development initiatives. 
Internal audit directorate will take the least funding of the entire city budget for 2018/18.Additionally, its allocation has been slashed from Shs307m in 2017/18 to Shs263m, and it will facilitate monitoring and ensuring compliance with business policies, laws and regulations. 
Although city leaders had earlier protested the budget for being meagre, Julius Kabugo, the Acting director of treasury services said that they could ask for a supplementary budget at a later period depending on the existing funding gaps.Treasury services has been allocated Shs2.35b and it will cater for among others; valuation of assets, continuous professional development and recurrent costs. advertisement