Home / TECH NEWS / Uganda gives 12 ICT innovators Sh2.5 billion boost Uganda gives 12 ICT innovators Sh2.5 billion boost   12, 2018 TECH NEWS Leave a comment 174 Views ICT ministers Tumwebaze and Aidah Nantaba listen to an innovator 
Kampala, Uganda | THE INDEPENDENT | Twelve groups of innovators have been awarded sh2.5bn ( $ 695,000) to help them go to the market. Minister of ICT and National Guidance Frank Tumwebaze handed over the support at a brief grants award ceremony held under the National ICT Initiatives Support Programme (NIISP) on Thursday. 
NIISP, introduced over a year ago, aims to c onstruct an ICT hub that would offer free work spaces to young Innovators in their primary stages of the innovation ecosystem and g ive direct financial support to innovations that are ready to go the market. The ICT hub construction is ongoing at Nakawa (UICT) and is being executed by the UPDF engineering brigade. 
Tumwebaze hailed the inaugural NIISP winners. “ I can now proudly report to the whole country that Ugandans have solutions of their own on the domestic market. If we can take these to the regional and international markets, then we shall have fully liberated our country from being a net importer of IT systems and solutions.” 
“What remains now is for you to polish it up further, demonstrate more clearly the problem your solution intends to solve and the market that will consume your solutions. W e are recognizing and commissioning you to go to the market to sell you intellectual outputs.” The ICT Innovations are: AIMS : The Academic Information Management System (AIMS) is an Integrated information system locally designed and customized to Meet the needs of the Universities in Uganda. The system is designed For computerization of student information, fees, financial and all Other University functions. Kicare: KiCare is a non-invasive solution that tests for Kidney functionality; the difference is that a blood sample is not required to perform this kidney functionality test. Protecting infants remotely by SMS (PRISMS) is an SMS based system which assists health workers to provide new-born care clinical management through provision of instant clinical care decisions based on routine assessment findings. Wulira app: Is a hearing assessment mobile application that is used to assess hearing loss in patients such as those on TB or HIV medications. This application helps patients discover that they have hearing loss before it is too late for medical practitioners to remedy. Sysimo technologies : Blood Donation System (BDS) is a mobile based Application which facilitates communication between blood donors And blood donation centres so that the appropriate donor can be Reached just on time. Dero energy services limited : This application supports the acquisition of localized solar power which is cheaper than grid power to support renewable energy. Energrow : aims to catalyze socio-economic development through sustainable electricity demand growth, by means of digital financial inclusion, business training and increased energy literacy. Intel world international: Xente is an application that enables cashless consumer to business transactions. It is an online payment platform that enables businesses to reach and transact with their customers. OCULAR : Ocular is a mobile application which enables diagnosis for microscopically diagnosed diseases. This application is at prototype level and has been successfully tested– it sits on a mobile phone which is connected to a Microscope for the diagnosis. 6th SENSE : 6th Sense is a mobile application which translates Sign language to speech. It is applicable in service delivery facilities to support persons with disability especially the deaf and the dumb and addresses our equity aspirations. Munu technologies: Munu Technologies Associates(MTA) is an IT company offering business processing outsourcing(BPO) services to organizations seeking operational effectiveness, greater flexibility and lower operating costs. M-Farmer: M-Farmer software is designed to extend technology services to farmers. This application enables farmers to keep better records, increase efficiency of operations and make informed decisions. It shall help provide support to the farmers including extension services, market and weather information, etc.