Wednesday March 21 2018 National team golfer Ssentongo dies in road accident RIP. Ssentongo died after the Boda Boda he was riding on was hit by an Elf Truck. In Summary The late Namulonge-bred golfer had only made his first cut among the finest 20 golfers in the country this year. He was supposed to be part of the trials to pick first the last eight and then final four that will represent Uganda in the Zone 5 Tournament at the Chapman Golf Club in Harare, Zimbabwe from April 8-13. Only two weeks ago, Ssentongo, a handicap three golfer at the time of his demise, made it to the podium at as a winner in the men’s subsidiary category with 38 points at the Singleton Match Play Golf Challenge in Entebbe on March 10 Advertisement By INNOCENT NDAWULA & DARREN ALLAN KYEYUNE 
KAMPALA. A life and a career that promised so much is no more. Yusuf Ssentongo was part of Uganda Golf Union (UGU)’s new breed of golfers that were destined for the big time. Despite his potential being visible for all and sundry, Ssentongo’s epitome will never be witnessed after the Boda Boda he was riding on was crushed to pieces yesterday.“He was on a Boda Boda coming to report for national team camp in Kampala ahead of the Zone V Trials,” explained national team captain Becca Mwanja, who rushed to the scene and managed to get this ordeal from eye witnesses. 
“Ssentongo was on his way from Namulonge and the accident happened around Gayaza. An identified taxi overtook the Boda Boda bike and stopped suddenly in the middle of the road to pick an extra passenger. The sudden break was the cause of the accident because the unidentified Elf Truck carrying sand that was right behind them rammed into the bike and killed both Ssentongo and the rider. It also damaged part of the taxi’s behind. This is very sad.” 
First cut The late Namulonge-bred golfer had only made his first cut among the finest 20 golfers in the country this year. He was supposed to be part of the trials to pick first the last eight and then final four that will represent Uganda in the Zone 5 Tournament at the Chapman Golf Club in Harare, Zimbabwe from April 8-13. Uganda Golf Union (UGU) president Innocent Kihika passed on a quick condolence message and forthwith called off the National Trials. 
“Ssentongo will be dearly missed by the golf fraternity. We have called off the camp and will ensure that rest of the 19 guys attend burial. “We shall also help the family with the burial arrangements and anything else we can. May his soul Rest in Peace,” said Kihika.Only two weeks ago, Ssentongo, a handicap three golfer at the time of his demise, made it to the podium at as a winner in the men’s subsidiary category with 38 points at the Singleton Match Play Golf Challenge in Entebbe on March 10.Burial is scheduled for today, as per the Islamic faith. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com