Prisons to handcuff suspects in court The Commissioner General of Prisons, Dr Johnson Byabashaija. FILE PHOTO Advertisement By MARTINS E. SSEKWEYAMA 
Masaka. 
Prison authorities are in talks with the Judiciary to have high profile suspects appear before court in handcuffs to prevent them from escaping, the commissioner general of Prisons has said.The unusual move follows President Museveni’s concern over the escape of two murder suspects from Masaka Chief Magistrates’ Court where they had been taken for prosecution by prison warders. Musa Galiwango and Muhammad Kiddawalime fled the court on March 1 after they had been remanded over murder and other capital offences in connection with killing and maiming with machetes of several residents in Masaka.Following this incident, Mr Museveni, while officiating at celebrations to mark the International Women’s Day in Mityana District on March 8, wondered why suspects answering to grave crimes of murder, terrorism, and aggravated rape appear before courts without handcuffs. 
Review In an apparent response to Mr Museveni’s displeasure, Prisons commissioner general Johnson Byabashaija said they are currently reviewing their guidelines to keep high profile suspects in handcuffs as a means of stopping similar escape. Mr Byabashaija was speaking on the sidelines of a security meeting in Masaka Town on Wednesday.He said they are already in talks with the Judiciary to embrace the proposition, but was quick to add that the approach will not be universally applied except to only high profile criminal suspects.“We shall not handcuff all of them, but only those we highly suspect can escape despite the risks,” he said.Mr Byabashaija, who conceded that their consideration violates laws of administration of justice and other international standards, said they cannot afford seeing more dangerous suspects fleeing from courtrooms. 
Suspect lynched Kiddawalime has since been lynched by a mob in Kalungu District where he had reportedly slipped to rob a midwife last week. His accomplice, Galiwango, escaped. Mr Byabashaija said the Prisons authorities will ensure that Ggaliwango is re-arrested and brought before court.Mr Lafit Zaake, the southern regional police commander, said their teams are combing villages in search for Ggaliwango. advertisement