Govt piles pressure on schools over poor teaching methods The State minister for Primary Education, Ms Rosemary Seninde Advertisement By PATIENCE AHIMBISIBWE 
Kampala. 
The government has asked teachers to stop blaming the curriculum for the students’ failures but the teaching methods with which they use to deliver it.State minister for Education Rosemary Seninde said teachers should get out of their way to interest learners to love and understand the content of the subjects they teach. The minister was yesterday speaking at a meeting with teachers and head teachers at GEMS Cambridge International School in Luzira, Kampala, on post 2018 Global Education and Skills. 
Teachers blamed “We are grappling with how to ensure quality education. What I am always complaining about is whether our teachers are doing what they are supposed to do. Is it because they don’t know what to do? Is it because of the attitude, they do not care, or are they waiting for the money? What is the problem?” Ms Seninde said. She added: “I remember when I was in a teacher training college, I learnt that whether with money or not, as a teacher, you have to be creative. Have the teachers forgotten they have to be innovative? If a teacher produces half-baked students, it means they have not done a good job and yet our curriculum could not be the problem. The problem is us the implementers.”Varkey Foundation executive director Charlotte Oloya said every teacher should be supported no matter how they joined the profession. Varkey foundation is a not-for-profit organisation established to improve the standards of education for underprivileged children.But Mr James Katumba, a mentor at Youth Entrepreneurship and Employability, said many teachers are not comfortable when another party questions their ability to deliver. “Teachers don’t want to be told how to teach. There is a tendency by teachers not to welcome initiatives to improve their skills. Things are changing every day and if they do not embrace the new challenges, they will continue to give our children obsolete information,” he said.Mr Ronald Ddungu, a Physics and Mathematics teacher at St Mary’s College, Kisubi, said technology has advanced his teaching methodology. For instance, he said when he is teaching measurements and straight lines concepts in Mathematics, he uses the school garden where the students are required to draw vectors while planting. The meeting agreed to hold a national teachers’ conference where they will learn and appreciate new skills to deliver their various subjects. advertisement