  CMI confirms arresting Mbarara migrations officer Army spokesperson, Brig Richard Karemire, confirmed to Daily Monitor, that Mr Washaba was arrested in relation to a critical case that is being investigated by CMI. FILE PHOTO In Summary Mr Washaba was apprehended alongside two police officers over a case reportedly involving foreign nationals suspected to have illegally sneaked into the country and engaged in dubious dealings. Brig Karemire, however, declined to divulge details of the cases that led to the arrest of Mr Washaba and other police officers. Advertisement By JOSEPH KATO 
KAMPALA. Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence (CMI), an investigation arm of Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF), have confirmed the arrest and detention of Mbarara regional migrations officer. 
Mr Cuthbert Washaba, a migrations officer attached to Mbarara region that covers over 10 districts among others Mbarara, Sheema, Bushenyi, Mitooma and Ibanda was arrested by officers attached to CMI on Good Friday about a fortnight ago. 
Army spokesperson, Brig Richard Karemire, confirmed to Daily Monitor, that Mr Washaba was arrested in relation to a critical case that is being investigated by CMI. 
“He is assisting us with investigations. There is a case we are investigating and he is with us to help us in our investigations. He will be granted freedom very soon,” Brig Karemire said. 
Mr Washaba was apprehended alongside two police officers over a case reportedly involving foreign nationals suspected to have illegally sneaked into the country and engaged in dubious dealings. 
Brig Karemire, however, declined to divulge details of the cases that led to the arrest of Mr Washaba and other police officers. 
“At least I have confirmed to you that he is helping us in our investigations. The details of the case may not be helping you. Good you have confirmed the rumour and I am telling you he will be released by close of business tomorrow,” Brig Karemire said. 
Mr Washaba’s relatives and friends learnt about his arrest about five days after later his contacts were not going through. They then went to Mbarara District headquarters from where he works and they were informed about his arrest. 
“I called his telephone lines but they were not going through. We engaged his workmates at Mbarara District headquarters and it was when we learn about his arrest. No one is giving us details on why he was arrested,” Mr Joseph Mukasa said. 
jkato@ug.nationmedia.com