Uganda to host Global Peace Leadership conference   
President Museveni and former Zanzibar President H.E Dr. Abeid Amani Karume have today launched the Global Peace Leadership conference mobile App and website that will enable over 50 million people from all over the world to scan the QR code and access conference topics. 
“I heard about Rev. Moon but I never met him. I have heard that his son Dr. Hyun Jin P. Moon is involved in global peace. We support his efforts especially when he talks about structured peace because peace is an end product and a result of many things, which if not put in place, you may not get peace or you get vulnerable peace which will slide back and which is not sustained,” he said shortly after the launch at State House Entebbe. - Advertisement - 
The Global Peace Leadership Conference will be held between 1st – 3rd August, 2018 in Uganda under the theme, “Moral and Innovative Leadership: New Models for sustainable Peace and development”. The President said without several efforts in place including moral uprightness, education, business, job creation, and unity in diversity, there can’t be sustainable peace. 
“It is important to anatomize peace, moral uprightness for example is important because corrupt people can’t sustain peace for long. How can we also prevent group chauvinism where one group dominates others? The website will show you the different elements of global peace. The conference is an analysis of this, getting the best practices around the world in one place,” he said. The President pledged support towards the Global Peace Leadership conference and suggested a small team be formed to follow up and implement decisions from the conference. “It’s my pleasure on behalf of the government of Uganda to support this effort. I congratulate the GPL for thinking this idea and we have launched it and we look forward to the conference,’’ he said. 
On what the regional leaders are doing to stop the war in the Democratic Republic of Congo, President Museveni said IGAD under the chairmanship of Congo Brazerville is mediating efforts for peace in the DRC. He added however that conflicts in Congo center around conflicts of identity, tribalism and religious sectarianism coupled with a weak state structure where a country has no army and depends on the United Nations. 
“We can’t invite the UN to fight our wars; that is a vote of no confidence. How can people from Bangladesh and Uruguay come to die in the forests in Africa? The element of ideology is lacking,” he said. The conference hopes to increase social cohesion, unity and economic development in the Great Lakes Region and the Horn of Africa, push for a multi-sector engagement and investment in a common regional vision for collective peace and development among other things. - Advertisement -