‘‘Tax on WhatsApp, Facebook: intended to raise for money to maintain security, extend electricity’’-Minister Kasaija   
Finance Minister Matia Kasaija has dismissed claims that the proposed tax on users of social media platforms such as WhatsApp, Twitter and Facebook of Ugx. 200 per day could limit people’s use of the internet. 
Government plans to impose a daily tax on social media users from July in a bid to raise revenue to finance the 2018/19 National budget. Government has also introduced Ugx.100 tax on each litre of fuel for road maintenance, and income tax on 30 per cent of every Savings and Credit Cooperative Organization (Sacco’s) net profit. Government also targets commercial buildings to boost government revenue from the Ugx. 50b the taxman collects from landlords annually. - Advertisement - 
Earlier this month, President Museveni – who has been in power for more than 30 years –in a letter to Finance Minister Kasaija said that a tax should be introduced on people who use social media for “gossip”. “I am not going to propose a tax on internet use for educational, research or reference purposes… these must remain free. However, olugambo on social media and advertisements by Google and I do not know who else must pay tax because we need resources to cope with the consequences of their lugambo,” Mr Museveni wrote in a March 12 letter to Finance minister Matia Kasaija. 
Of Uganda’s estimated 40 million people, 23.6 million are mobile phone subscribers while 17 million use the internet. Cabinet has already approved the tax and now waits parliamentary approval. The amount is unclear – Reuters reports that Mr Kasaija said it will be 200 Ugandan shillings a day, However, while addressing journalists at Uganda Media Centre on Thursday, the State Minister for Planning, David Bahati said Ugx. 100 will be charged daily on each SIM card that uses internet for social media. 
“We’re looking for money to maintain the security of the country and extend electricity so that you people can enjoy more of social media, more often, more frequently,” Mr Kasaija told Reuters. The proposed tax measures that seek to help government raise between Ugx. 400 billion and Ugx. 1.4 trillion from social media users annually.