Friday April 13 2018 Parliament to probe sexual harassment in schools In 2017, the country was shocked on learning that the proprietor of St Lawrence Schools, the late Prof Lawrence Mukiibi had alleged fathered children with students from the same institutions. FILE PHOTO In Summary Dismayed by the delay and the fact that the government did not raise the matter to Parliament, the House proceeded to create the committee. Speaker Rebecca Kadaga also vowed to list and shame teachers on the floor of Parliament who are involved in the exploitation acts. Advertisement By Moses Kyeyune 
PARLIAMENT: Parliament on Thursday unanimously agreed to constitute a select committee to investigate allegations of sexual harassment in institutions of learning. 
The decision came after a motion by National Female youths MP, Anna Adeke urging Parliament to inquire into the matter. 
The motion also follows media reports on the vice involving teachers, lecturers and school heads.Ms Adeke argued that the practice impedes on the rights of learners to education in a safe environment. 
“This right is infringed when people are subjected to sexual violence which hence undermines their security and safety in institutions of learning as well as threatening Uganda’s path to development,” she said. 
The lawmaker’s concern come in light of ongoing investigations into alleged exploitation of learners.The most recent cases include Makerere University lecturer Dr Swizen Kyomuhendo in a “sex for marks scandal” that was exposed by the media. 
Another case is that of Ali Muggaga, the interdicted head teacher of Kibuli Secondary School.In 2017, the country was shocked on learning that the proprietor of St Lawrence Schools, the late Prof Lawrence Mukiibi had alleged fathered children with students from the same institutions. 
Although Parliament attempted to probe the matter, it suffered a natural end.Ms Adeke asked Parliament to set up a select committee to investigate allegations in addition to fast tracking the enactment of the Sexual Offences Bill, 2015. 
Her motion was supported by other lawmakers, Mr Anthony Okello (NRM Kioga County) and Kaberamaido District MP Veronica Isala Eragu (NRM). 
The minister of State for Primary Education, Ms Rosemary Seninde, while representing the ministry in the House, staged an objection for a select committee arguing that the cases were already under investigation pending prosecution. 
She cited the case of Muggaga which is currently being investigated by both the police and ministry.“I suggest that Parliament gives terms of reference to guide the committee from the ministry because these two institutions are supposed to complement each other,” said Seninde. 
Dismayed by the delay and the fact that the government did not raise the matter to Parliament, the House proceeded to create the committee. 
Speaker Rebecca Kadaga also vowed to list and shame teachers on the floor of Parliament who are involved in the exploitation acts. 
The composition of the committee will be named next week. 
mkyeyune@ug.nationmedia.com