Friday April 13 2018 DPP drops charges against artistes accused of annoying President Museveni David Mugema (R) and his music producer, Jonah Muwanguzi addressing journalists shortly after court proceedings where the DPP said his office had dropped charges against them. PHOTO BY BETTY NDAGIRE In Summary Prosecution alleged that Mugema and Muwanguzi between 2015 and 2017 at Salama Road in Makindye, Kampala, unlawfully repeatedly composed, recorded, produced and electronically communicated through social media a song titled Mzee Wumula “ take a rest old man” wherein they attacked and disturbed the person and age of President Museveni without a legitimate reason. Advertisement By BETTY NDAGIRE 
KAMPALA- The Director of Public Prosecution has discontinued charges of offensive communication against local artists accused of frustrating the peace of President Museveni. 
Mr David Mugema, 31, was facing one count of offensive communication alongside his music producer Jonah Muwanguzi, 23. 
Muwanguzi was also independently charged with abetment of offensive communication. It was further alleged that Muwanguzi aided Mugema in producing the said song which annoyed the President. 
In a session presided over by Buganda Road Court Grade One magistrate, Gladys Kamasanyu, the state prosecutor, Mr Abdul Salaam Waiswa presented a letter signed by the DPP communicating that he had lost interest in the charges against the duo and opted to withdraw the matter. 
READ: Artist remanded for annoying Museveni 
“This is to inform court that the DPP has decided to discontinue charges against Mugema and Muwanguzi,” the letter from the DPP reads in part. 
Upon magistrate Kamasanyu perusing through the letter, she told the suspect that they are free from the trial. 
She as well ordered that they should repossess their equipment that were confiscated as exhibits. 
Prosecution alleged that Mugema and Muwanguzi between 2015 and 2017 at Salama Road in Makindye, Kampala, unlawfully repeatedly composed, recorded, produced and electronically communicated through social media a song titled Mzee Wumula “take a rest old man” wherein they attacked and disturbed the person and age of President Museveni without a legitimate reason. 
Speaking to Daily Monitor after the court session Mugema said that they are happy that the DPP has realized that they were totally innocent as his song had nothing to do with the President. 
“Upon regaining the studio, I will record my songs again so that they push through the air waves. The time I have stayed without producing songs has greatly frustrated my music carrier,” Mugema said. 
bndagire@ug.nationmedia.com