Friday April 13 2018 Cars, cement inputs lead imports in March A car bond in Kampala. Uganda earns billions of Shillings from taxes on car imports. FILE PHOTO In Summary Imports. Uganda imported more goods through Mombasa Port than other East African member states, apart from Kenya. Advertisement By Dorothy Nakaweesi 
Kampala. 
Uganda imported more cars and clinker, a raw material for making cement than any other goods and services, according to data from Uganda Revenue Authority. Other imports included wheat, steel, fertilizers, sorghum and coal, among other light products. More than 4,272 cars were imported into the country in March alone compared to an average of 3,000. This is the highest in more than four years. Clinker imports stood at 180,000 tonnes in March with more than 55,000 already cleared to enter the country in the first week of April.Mr Dickson Kateswumbwa, the commissioner for customs told Daily Monitor yesterday the increase in clinker imports was a result of the surge in the number of construction projects across the country. However, he could not peg it on the current cement shortage that has hit the country in the last three weeks. Uganda also imported a substantial amount of wheat bringing in more than 180,000 tonnes in the month under review. A report released by Kenya Ports Authority indicated that Uganda imported more goods than other East African member states, apart from Kenya, rolling off more than 2,911 containers at the Mombasa Port in March. About 3,896 containers were rolled through the port in the month under review. The KPA report also indicates that much of the imports were cars, clinker and wheat. With more 2,911 containers, Uganda imported more goods in March followed by Tanzania, which shipped in about 418 containers. South Sudan shipped in 191 containers, DR Congo 154 and Rwanda with 116 while Somalia and Burundi shipped in 25 and 11 containers, respectively.Increased importation of clinker, a key raw material for making cement, comes at a time when Uganda is facing an acute shortage of cement. The shortage has impacted prices that have risen from an average of Shs28,000 to Shs50,000 in the last three weeks. Cement manufacturers have blamed the shortage on power interruptions and inconsistence in supply of raw materials, mainly clinker. Speaking in Tororo at the weekend Mr Nicola George, the Hima Cement country chief executive, said because there were challenges related to power and low supply of raw material, dealers were taking advantage to charge high prices to make high returns. advertisement