Finance ministry now puts economic growth at 6% Minister of State for Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Mr David Bahati Advertisement By Emmanuel ainebyoona 
Kampala. 
The government inconsistencies on economic growth figures yesterday took a turn after the Minister of State for Planning, Mr David Bahati, overruled technocrats and put projected growth at the end of this financial year at 6 per cent.Mr Bahati, however, did not reveal the source of the results. “We had projected that the economy will grow at 5.5 per cent but the economy by the end of the year, will have grown by 6 per cent,” Mr Bahati said while announcing proposed tax collection measures for the financial year 2018/2019 during a press conference at Uganda Media Centre in Kampala yesterday. He attributed the improvement in economic growth figures to recovery in the sectors of agriculture, services and industrialisation.The new figure is, however, different from what Finance minister Matia Kasaiaja announced in his June 2017 Budget for this financial year. Mr Kasaija had projected the economy to grow by 5.5 per cent and eventually 7 per cent in the medium term (over a three-year period, starting next financial year (2018/19). Although Bank of Uganda (BoU) Governor Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile, quoting figures from Uganda Bureau of Statistics (UBOS), said in his Monetary Policy Statement for April 2018, put economic growth in 2017 at 6.3 per cent compared to 3 per cent in 2016.National Planning Authority chairman Kisamba Mugerwa in his March 27 letter to Mr Kasaija talked of economic growth of 4.8 per cent in 2016 and 4.8 per cent in 2017. For the projected growth, Mr Mugerwa and Mr Kasaija quote 5.5 per cent at the end of this financial year. Government officials have traded contradicting verdicts on the status of the economy and the progress on the quest for a middle-income country by 2020. Mr Mutebile and his deputy, Mr Louis Kasekende, issued different statements this week in which they talked of a buoyant economy.However, Mr Mugerwa insists that for the last three financial years, the economy has continued to decline and indicated “it is very unlikely” that Uganda will achieve the lower middle-income status. Mr Kasekende, who has been accused by some Members of Parliament and independent analysts of “telling lies” about the economy and “vending unrealistic figures”, also quoted UBOS figures and delivered an economic forecast that puts Uganda’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth in the last six months of 2017 at 6.9 per cent. Although BoU spokesperson Charity Mugumya yesterday said they do not publish their own GDP estimates, there were no contradictions in figures. advertisement