Government should grant Mukono Municipality a city status Kavuma–Kaggwa Attraction. Mukono is located on five hills with numerous valleys and wetlands. It still has vast lands for real estate development. Wetlands provide ready to use water for industries. Advertisement By Kavuma–Kaggwa 
I remember during the 2016 elections campaign, I read in that good NRM Manifesto the section which had a Government Plan to upgrade a number of towns to a city status.The towns included Nakasongola, Mbarara, Fort Portal, Jinja and Moroto. After reading the manifesto, I concluded that the authors either forgot or deliberately ignored Mukono Municipality.Historically, economically, socially, educationally and given the rate and standards of development in Uganda today, Mukono deserves to be granted city status now. Historically, Mukono was one of the centres of civilisation in Uganda. At the advent of the White man in Africa, big Christian missions, hospitals, schools and colleges were established in Mukono.In 1902, Bishop Henry Hanlon of the Catholic Mill Hill Missionaries from England, established the famous Namilyango College. In 1890, Bishop Tucker of the Church Missionary Society (CMS) from England, established the Christian Mission and a hospital on Mukono hill. He also established the Bishop Tucker Theological College, which is now the Uganda Christian University (UCU). 
In 1908, Uganda was declared “the Pearl of Africa” at Mukono on the hill which is known by the people of that area as “Muggulu e Mukono”. That place is where there is the official residence of the Buganda Ssaza chief Sekiboobo of Kyaggwe County.One early morning in 1908, when Sir Wilson Churchill, former British prime minister was on a tour of this part of Africa, he woke up to a very clear morning African weather. He stood on that hill and looked eastwards. He saw undulating hills of Kyaggwe County, valleys, green trees and grass, which he had not seen anywhere else in Africa and he declared, “This is really the Pearl Of Africa.” 
A pearl is a precious stone found in the “Oyster”, a small fish also known as the “shell fish”. The “shell fish” is only found in the Pacific Ocean. The pearl is more precious than diamond and because of its value, it is only put in the Queen’s necklace or the British Crown, which Her Majesty the Queen of Great Britain wears on official and special occasions like the official opening of Parliament.Mukono, as it is currently described by its mayor, George Fred Kagimu, is a highly prosperous Municipality for all. Mukono Municipality has political representation in Parliament, who is the fiery Betty Nambooze Bakireke from the Democratic Party. 
Mukono is the Capital of both the Buganda Kingdom County of Kyaggwe and the central government district of Mukono. It is also the main gateway to Uganda from the east African coast. And it is the second biggest municipality after Jinja followed by Iganga and Tororo municipalities. 
Mayor Kagimu has plans of making Mukono a model municipality in Uganda with modern infrastructure and amenities where there will be no need for one to travel all the way to Kampala to buy goods. Currently, the vision for Mukono Municipality is “A prosperous Municipality for all”. 
The Mission Statement of the municipality is to provide quality services within local and national priorities in order to improve standards of living in the municipality. The municipality has an estimated night population of 200,000 people.The municipality is located on five hills with numerous valleys and wetlands. It still has vast lands for real estate development. Wetlands provide ready to use water for industries hence high potential for industrialisation. advertisement