Saturday April 14 2018 Nakalembe, Magala lead ladies’ charge at Singleton Round of 32 Women on top. National team players Nakalembe (L) and Magala have a chance to enhance their reputation at the Singleton Challenge round of 32 today. PHOTOs BY eddie chicco In Summary Golf. Oldies is the theme of the day as the fraternity heads to the lakeside course in Entebbe for a breathtaking round. Advertisement By DARREN ALLAN KYEYUNE 
KAMPALA. 
Irene Nakalembe and Moureen Okura stood out at the inaugural Entebbe Singleton Challenge as the last standing female pairing last year.Their journey ended at the last 16 stage when they lost to Allan Muhereza and Moses Matsiko 3-up with two holes to spare (3/2) at the par-71During this year’s edition, Nakalembe and Okura chose different partners and the former is now a stage away from last year’s landmark.The record Entebbe Ladies Open champion Nakalembe leads the ladies’ charge with Eva Magala at round of last 32 for this Singleton knock-out competition against Charles Hamya and Joseph Bogera. “It is the same plan,” Nakalembe opened up. “We are taking it a step at a time,” she said before her partner Magala chipped in.“We trust God. We take every game as it comes.” Magala whose combo with Nakalembe eliminated Moses Ssebugwawo and Godfrey Byamugisha at the round of 64.The latter pairing that eliminated 2016 winners Isaac Mariera and John Muchiri at the last 64 stage.Meanwhile, Multichoice Uganda general manager Hamya is interestingly one of the sponsors for the showpiece with brand DStv, implying the onus is on him to delight on and off the course. The overall winning pairing at this championship will be flown by RwandAir to the World Golf Tour Championships at the luxurious Jumeriah Golf Estates in Dubai, UAE from November 15-18. 
ENTEBBE SINGLETON CHALLENGE: ROUND OF LAST 32 
SELECTED PAIRINGS FOURSOMES - TODAY Irene Nakalembe & Eva Magala vs. Charles Hamya & Joseph BogeraMicheal Tumusiime & Allan Muhereza vs. Dan Kajungu & Collins NuwagiraRonnie Kasirye & Robert Busingye vs. Edward Kabuuchu & Andrew KibayaTwinemanzi Tumbweine & Robbins Muhaire vs. Paul Kaheru & Joseph BagaboJoseph Galiwango & Ali Juuko vs. Peace Kabasweka & Sheila KesiimeMorgan Otile & Herbert Opolot vs. Vincent Asiimwe & Francis OtimCharles Mubiru & Joseph Mawejje vs. Wendy Angu’Deyo & Doreen Mwesigye advertisement