Saturday April 14 2018 Five UPL matches that may decide champion Kings at home. SC Villa’s goal hero, Martin Kizza (C), in their last home fixture at Masaka Recreation Ground controls the ball whilst staving off a double-team challenge from URA players Fred Okot (L) and Saidi Kyeyune (R) on February 27. Kizza is the main reason why SC Villa are atop. The record 16-time Uganda Premier League champions also boast of the meanest defence. PHOTO BY JOHN BATANUDDE Advertisement By DENIS BBOSA & ISMAIL DHAKABA KIGONGO 
KAMPALA. 
SC Villa have put themselves within striking distance of a first Azam Uganda Premier League title in 14 years.With nine 1-0 victories, they are top of the league with seven games to play and that long awaited 17th crown.KCCA, on 12 titles, are in the frame for a third straight title while two-time Vipers cannot be counted out yet as they lie third on 43 points, six adrift of the leaders.Vipers and KCCA have games in hand on Villa but it seems that the five key fixtures highlighted below will decide the destiny of the title. 
1. Onduparaka vs KCCA, April 17, Green Light Stadium Villa may have been lucky to beat a Nicholas Ssebwato-less Onduparaka and break their home unbeaten run but KCCA may find a stiffer job.Under interim coach Simeon Masaba, Onduparaka have put behind the Livingstone Mbabazi miserable days and have won two games on the bounce.On the same day KCCA visit Green Light, title contenders Villa and Vipers will be tussling it out at Masaka Recreation Grounds, which makes the tie a must win. 
2. Villa vs Vipers, April 17, Masaka Recreation Ground Vipers will attempt to be the first side to beat Villa at their Masaza home.Villa’s title charge received renewed vigour after the two-point deduction and loss to Vipers at Kitende amid destruction of stadium property by fans. This game on Tuesday will mean a lot to everyone, fans inclusive. 
3. Vipers vs KCCA, April 27, St Mary’s Stadium It will be the first time for KCCA to play at St Mary’s Stadium, Kitende in a game they need to win at all costs.URA and Paidha Black Angels have proved wins at St Mary’s Stadium are possible but Miguel Da Costa’s side have greatly improved in the second round and are yet to lose a game.Vipers would want to avenge KCCA’s 3-1 first round thrashing at Lugogo. 
4. Express vs KCCA, May 1, Wankulukuku For the past two seasons, KCCA have secured the league crown in games against Express - and ironically at Wankulukuku.Express are locked in a fight against relegation which has made every game a final of sorts; beating KCCA would enhance their stay.Express hired experienced coach George ‘Best’ Nsimbe, brought in hurriedly to redeem their fortunes alongside Shafiq Bisaso. Nsimbe is a former player and coach at KCCA. Spicy. 
5. Express vs SC Villa, May 11, Wankulukuku The positions and formbook won’t matter when these two archrivals’ paths cross at Wankulukuku.Express lost the first round game and will want to avoid ‘aiding’ Villa’s stroll while Uganda’s oldest club also fight to retain their league status.In the blue corner, Villa coach Wasswa Bbosa has played and coached Express and must expect a rude welcome. advertisement