Justice Owiny-Dollo acquits terror suspect for lack of cooperation Justice Alfonse Owiny-Dollo. File photo In Summary At the time of her death, Kagezi was prosecuting the terror suspects. Owiny-Dollo who at the time was the head of the International Crimes Division of the High Court and also the presiding judge of the terrorism case against 13 suspects, a certain country refused to avail very important evidence that would have convicted the suspect Those acquitted include Omar Awadh Omar, Dr Ismail Kalule, Abubakari Batematyo, Muhammed Suleiman Habib and Yahya Suleiman Mbuthia. Advertisement By Agencies 
KAMPALA. 
The Deputy Chief Justice Alfonse Owiny-Dollo has revealed that he acquitted a suspect in the July 11, 2010 twin bombings in Kampala because one country declined to cooperate with Uganda in investigations. While speaking at the Joan Kagezi Memorial lecture in Kampala on Friday, Justice Owiny-Dollo however stopped short of naming the suspect and the country that was uncooperative. The lecture was in memory of State Prosecutor Joan Kagezi who was shot dead in March 2015 . At the time of her death, Kagezi was prosecuting the terror suspects. According to Owiny-Dollo who at the time was the head of the International Crimes Division of the High Court and also the presiding judge of the terrorism case against 13 suspects, a certain country refused to avail very important evidence that would have convicted the suspect. "They said that they could not help Uganda because it has refused to repeal the death penalty from the law books. And just like that we failed to get evidence that could have convicted the suspect, “the Deputy Chief Justice said. According to the deputy chief justice, the unnamed country refused to help with the evidence unless Uganda could commit not to issue the death penalty against the suspect. On May 26, 2016, the Justice Owiny-Dollo convicted seven suspects for the July 2010 twin bombings and also exonorated five others . Those acquitted include Omar Awadh Omar, Dr Ismail Kalule, Abubakari Batematyo, Muhammed Suleiman Habib and Yahya Suleiman Mbuthia. advertisement