April 14, 2018 The Kajjansi Inter Change 
The US$ 476 million Kampala-Entebbe Express Highway is expected to done and handed over to Uganda national roads authority (UNRA) in November this year. One of the Toll Plazas 
According to the contractors, the 49.5 kilometres highway that will help decongest and enhance the trade movement in the central business district, has two sections starting from Busega on northern bypass to the existing Kampala- Entebbe road at Mpala, and a 12. 6km section commencing from Kajjansi interchange to Munyonyo. 
Allan Sempebwa, the Uganda National Roads Authority (UNRA) Public Relations Officer noted that congestion in Kampala is increasing at an estimated rate of 4.5 per cent annually. 
“Kampala is facing heavy traffic jam especially during rash morning and evening hours which the current roads can’t accommodate,” Mr. Sempebwa said yesterday while taking journalists on a guided tour of the highway. 
The highway has three interchanges at Busega, Kajjansi and Abayita Ababiri, connecting to various trading centers, and has 19 overpass bridges and 17 underpasses for local people to access their properties along and around the road. It will be accessed after paying fees that will soon be revealed to the public. Accommodation facility along the Kampala-Entebbe Express Highway 
“Payments will be made at various toll plazas constructed at Busega, Kajjansi and Mpala that comprise over 10 accommodation rooms each,” he added. 
Before accessing toll gates, loaded vehicles will go through weigh bridges and wayward users will be subjected to fines and offloading excess cargo before being cleared. 
Meanwhile, contractors said the 1450 metre bridge that was constructed in Nambigirwa swamp has not affected the environment basing on the factor that it is rested on well-spaced pillars dug six meters deep. The contractors noted that this is the longest bridges in East African region. The 1450 metre bridge in Nambigirwa swamp 
Currently, officials said, 91 per cent of the project has been executed and is expected to be handed over to UNRA in November this year. 
Despite its progress, the project faced various changes which includes among others the compensation of land owners that culminated into re-alignment of the project.