Saturday April 14 2018 Ochola moves 24 senior officers in latest police shakeup Former Police spokesperson Fred Enanga has been appointed commissioner in charge of administration and training at the directorate of Criminal Investigations. File photo In Summary Commissioner Edison Gumisiriza has been transferred from crime investigation to PSU while ACP Jerome Baryayanga has been move to Agriculture police from International police. Commissioner, Fortunate Habyala, who has been 'on bench' ever since he was dropped as Professional Standards Unit (PSU) has been moved to CID headquarters in the crime intelligence unit. Advertisement By JOSEPH KATO 
KAMPALA. 
Inspector General of Police, Martin Okoth Ochola, has moved 24 senior police officers in his Friday reshuffle message. Mr Ochola has replaced Kampala Metropolitan police commander, Frank Mwesigwa with Mr Moses Kafeero who has been commandant for the police Staff College in Bwebajja , Entebbe Road. Mr Mwesigwa who replaced AIGP Abbas Byakagaba, in June 2016 has been appointed commander for Tourism police whereas Mr Lawrence Nuwabiine in now the new commander for police Staff College. “CP Frank Mwesigwa will now head the Tourism police, a key police department and is replaced by CP Kafeero. We congratulate the appointees and wish them well in their new assignments,” Mr Emilian Kayima, police spokesperson, said. Former police spokesperson, Fred Enanga, has been appointed commissioner in charge of administration and training at the directorate of Criminal Investigations whereas former Kampala Metropolitan operations commander, Sam Omala, has been taken to Field Force Unit. Commissioner, Fortunate Habyala, who has been 'on bench' ever since he was dropped as Professional Standards Unit (PSU) has been moved to CID headquarters in the crime intelligence unit. Mr George Chombe, Mr Wilson Omoding and Mr Charles Agaba have been moved to the directorate of counterterrorism that is commanded by AIGP Abbas Byakagaba who was a month ago moved from the Oil and Gas directorate. Commissioner Edison Gumisiriza has been transferred from crime investigation to PSU while ACP Jerome Baryayanga has been move to Agriculture police from International police. ACP Polly Namaye, has been transferred from Political Commissar directorate where she was transferred last month and appointed acting commissioner in charge of information and publication. Mr Ochola has also reshuffled some officers as regional police commanders (RPCs) among others ACP Richard Esega from Police Training School (PTS) Kabalye, in Masindi to Kigezi regional while SSP Ashraf Chemonge, was moved from Kigezi to Operations directorate. advertisement