Police officers convicted for murdering suspect in custody Justice David Batema, the resident judge at Soroti High Court delivered the judgement. File photo In Summary Mr Batema sent the convicts back to Soroti prisons as they wait to start to serve their term of sentence from 18, April. Ogire and company advocates and Atigo and company advocates, representing the convicts pleaded for a fair sentence. Advertisement By GEORGE MURON 
SOROTI. 
Two police officers and three civilians were on Friday convicted by the high court in Soroti for murdering a suspect in police cells in Kyere sub county, Serere district. In a fully parked court room, Mr David Batema, the resident judge Soroti high court who passed the judgement against, detective constable number 33166 James Ajotu, police constable number 55084 Emmanuel Enyutu, the GISO Mr David Ekellu, Moses Okwi and his wife Christine Betty Acham, told court that he will apportion years for their sentence on the 18, April 2018. He said court established that while at Kyere police post, the convicts, two of whom are police officers on January 12 murdered Paul Opolot by strangulation in the police cells, where he had been detained on charges of defilement, a crime said to have been committed in Akisim village. Mr Batema said court findings established that the murder was done using a rope around the deceased's neck after his mother failed to pay a bribe of Shs3m to the complainants, Mr Moses Okwi and his wife Christine Betty Acham whose daughter had allegedly been defiled by the late. “The deceased was stealthily forced into an HIV test by his murderers who jointly participated in the withdrawal of blood samples for medical examination in the absence of the deceased relatives, later strangled him,” the judge said. Mr Batema added that after realizing that the suspect (Paul Opolot) had died, a stage-managed postmortem report was issued claiming that the deceased had committed suicide. He said an independent postmortem however rubbished the earlier postmortem by police, saying that had it been that the late had hanged himself, he would have sustained bruises onto his neck, 'against the lies that earlier stated by the two police officers, and the GISO.' “It’s our findings that the accused police officers, parents and the GISO had common intentions of wounding the deceased,” he explained, adding the deceased was murdered by the accused in police custody. Mr Batema, however in this case acquitted James Oluka, a clinical officer, and Julius Okiria LC1, Akisim village, Kyere Sub County on grounds that they were not at the scene during the murder incident. He said the clinical officer gave court a correct report of the medical examination that rubbished 'lies' over alleged suicide. Mr Batema sent the convicts back to Soroti prisons as they wait to start to serve their term of sentence from 18, April. Ogire and company advocates and Atigo and company advocates, representing the convicts pleaded for a fair sentence. advertisement