Advertisement By Beatrice Nakibuuka 
Eating something raw at each meal is important because a lot of the health producing compounds that are found in most foods are sensitive to extremes of temperatures especially heat. 
Cooking and processing food destroys many of the nutrients found in fruits and vegetables and also kills enzymes and bacteria within food that are necessary for digestion, assimilation and even utilisation of other nutrients for health purposes. 
It is recommended that 50 per cent of all food consumed should not be cooked. Eat fruits such as avocado, nuts, seeds or a fresh vegetable salad with your lunch and dinner. 
There are very many healthy vegetables you should be eating in their raw form but remember to wash them well before you eat them. Tomatoes These red vegetables contain nutrients that act as body cleansers. According to Jamiru Mpiima, a nutritionist at Victoria University Wellness clinic, tomatoes are good for your skin and also contain vitamin B and potassium which are good for your heart and kidney. You can eat them raw or add them to whatever you are cooking. Onions Despite the temporary bad breath, chewing raw onions can improve your oral health because they kill bacteria that can lead to tooth decay and gum diseases. Onions contain vitamin C which is good for the skin and hair.“A mixture of onion juice and honey can be a good remedy for a cold. You can also place a piece of onion under the nose and inhale to slow down nose bleeding,” Mpiima says. Beetroot Beetroot are rich in iron which helps to increase the amount of blood and its flow in the body. Consuming beet root and its juice regularly helps in growth of red blood cells in the body which treats anaemia. It can also be a good home remedy for menstrual disorders and helps to purify blood.Beetroot also contains nutrients such as vitamin A which promotes good sight especially in low light. Carrots When consumed raw in form of juice, carrots improve stomach and digestive health. “Carrots contain dietary fibre which is important in maintaining good digestive health. It reduces the severity of constipation and protects the colon and stomach from cancer of the colon.”Carrots are good for your eyes. They also stimulate the gums to produce more saliva which kills bacteria and foreign bodies in the mouth thereby reducing oral health problems. advertisement