How I learned to live with my imperfect skin Advertisement By Flora Okot 
In my quest to find the perfect skin, there is nothing in this world of beauty I have not tried. From harsh skin creams to daily skin cleansing, toning and moisturising regimes to expensive exotic facial treatments and everything in between. I have tried it all. 
I was happy with my young, youthful, glowing skin with its smooth baby like feel until I said hello to puberty! At just the time I needed my face to stand out and show its true beauty, it became infested with all manners of pimples, black heads and white heads. 
As if this was not enough, my once beautiful skin oozed large amounts of oil that left my face unnecessarily shiny; making it seem as if I applied thick layers of oil day in, day out. How I hated what my once vibrant skin had morphed into! I struggled a lot with this ‘new’ skin that was quickly imposing its ugliness on me. I needed to find a solution to restore my skin fast to its former glory before I became the ugly duckling among my peers. Thus began my descent into the world of beauty soaps, creams and lotions. 
I subjected my skin to all types of harsh treatments including; poking, probing and prodding every pimple that dared to show itself. This only worsened my severely scarred face, taking a toll on my already fragile esteem. After years of experimenting with all types of beauty solutions, it is a wonder I survived the dreadful bleached skin. The rate at which I was using every recommended product was both reckless and careless. 
Achieving the perfect skin is a journey of dos and don’ts, trial and error, fails and misses. Over the years, I have come to appreciate the difference in skin types. Understanding your skin type and complexion helps you quickly find appropriate beauty products that will allow your skin to flourish beautifully. 
Nonetheless, for a boost in confidence on a bad skin day, there is nothing that a dash of makeup will not fix. Makeup covers a multitude of faults and it is one of life’s little pleasures that is welcome every time I need a perfect blemish free look. 
I have learned to embrace my skin with all its breakouts and complexities knowing that my skin type is prone to these disturbances every once in a while. Besides, they say beauty is only skin deep and I bring much more to the table than my skin, flawless or not. My skin is only a fraction of who I am. I bring with me my personality, character, experiences, skills and a whole lot more. 
Control acne Moderation and regularity are good things, but not everyone can sleep eight hours, eat three good meals, and drink plenty of water a day. One can, however, still control acne despite one’s frantic routine. Probably the most useful lifestyle changes one can make is to never to pick or squeeze pimples. Playing with or popping pimples nearly always makes bumps stay redder and bumpier longer. People often refer to redness as “scarring,” Fortunately, it usually is not permanent. While not absolutely essential, steaming and “deep-cleaning” pores is useful, both alone and in addition to medical treatment, especially for people with “whiteheads” or “blackheads.” -www.medicinenet.com