Why aren’t criminals flushed out, named and punished? Part II Advertisement By Prof George W. Kanyeihamba 
Last week, the above subject was discussed with the Uganda Police Force as the main topic. We now touch on other areas of governance which in Uganda appear to have gone to the dogs. We begin by asking a number of questions. What happened to Brig Stephen Kwiringira’s report on the mismanaging of the gorilla permits and the disappearance of millions of shillings and dollars? 
What happened to Justice Julia Sebutinde’s report on police or that of Justice James Ogoola on Global Fund money? What happened to Chief Justice Bart Katureebe’s report and his outcry against a named judge of the High Court? What happened to all those reports relating to the Office of the Prime Minister even long before Dr Ruhakana Rugunda became Prime Minister? 
What happened to the beneficiaries and billions of shillings illegally paid to them after successfully defending Uganda against oil exploration firms? What happened to the Makerere University dons revealed as benefitting from the immoral contracts of “marks for sex?” The list is endless.It is really disappointing that after President Museveni confidently pronounced that there are thieves in the ministry of Finance and Parliament threatened to censure senior officials, nothing has happened to those thieves. 
It is a shame that spirited members of a sports club demand from the minister responsible for Sports to investigate and act on offences committed in that club and their report meets with silence. As a country, have we become a play field for serious offenders? 
Under the principle of collective responsibility, the world blames the Uganda government or as some Ugandans believe, President Museveni’s government. Do we Ugandans have any shame or pride? 
Recently, the media reported that former prime minister Amama Mbabazi remarked that there will be a change of government before 2021. Apparently, the congregation burst out in relief, applauding him for what could turn out to be daydreaming, or can it happen in Uganda? 
It has happened elsewhere. It happened in South Africa when apartheid was the creed of the ruling oligarchy in that country. It happened in Egypt when president Anwar Sadat was guarded by his crack team of security men but one of them assassinated him. 
It happened in Iraq after Saddam Hussein boasted that his war with the Americans would be the mother of all wars, only to be found hiding in a manhole and being relieved to be captured alive by the Americans, but later tried, convicted and hanged by his own people. 
It happened to Ben Bella of Tunisia shortly after he was declared a winner by 99 per cent of rigged presidential elections. It happened in Libya when Muammar Gadhafi advised other revolutionaries never to quit power. He was later found in a sewer and hacked to death by a Libyan freedom fighter. 
It recently happened in Zimbabwe and South Africa where their respective peoples angrily turned against them. Mugabe and Zuma had previously claimed that they liberated their countries from colonialism and apartheid. However, when it came to governing their own people, they both failed. 
It happened in Uganda in 1986 after Museveni and 26 other compatriots went into the bush, assisted by millions of other Ugandans, and defeated Milton Obote and his successors. Today, the writing is on the wall for Burundi. Of course, none of this can happen in Uganda today when it is ruled by the leadership of the National Resistance Movement party. 
Prof Kanyeihamba is a retired Supreme Court judge. gwkany@yahoo.com