Massive shake-up in Police; SAM OMALA returns to Field Force Unit; Fred Enanga eats big   
Inspector General of Police Okoth Ochola on Friday made a comprehensive shake-up in police commands and departments, affecting positions up at the law enforcement agency’s headquarters and extending to officers in regions and districts. 
The new transfers and deployments saw former police spokesperson, Commissioner of Police Fred Enanga be sent to the Criminal Investigations Directorate headquarters in Kibuli as the personnel in charge of administration and training. While Polly Namaye has been deployed as the head of information and publications in the police force. The department is in charge of printing police calendars, booklets and other police materials. - Advertisement - 
According to an April 13 letter that was copied to the deputy IGP and all directors, The former Flying Squad commander Commissioner of Police, Herman Owomugisha has been transferred to the Very Important Persons Protection Unit(VIPPU) as the commandant whereas Moses Otala is his deputy. Assistant Commissioner of Police Sam Omala has returned to the Field Force Unit from the welfare and production department where he has been. 
Former Police Professional Standards Unit commander Fortunate Habyara who had not been deployed since April 2017 has now been sent to the Crime Intelligence headquarters. Ochola also named Commissioner of Police (CP) Fred Enanga as the head of the Criminal Investigation Department in charge of Administration and Training, a key position that is responsible for the training investigators in the CID directorate. 
In the other changes, , Senior Commissioner of Police (SCP) Geoffrey Chombe has been transferred from heading Counter Terrorism at the police headquarters to the directorate of Crime Intelligence. SCP Charles Asaba will deputise Chombe, after being moved from the directorate of Counter Terrorism. 
Commissioner Edison Gumisiriza has been transferred from crime investigation to PSU while ACP Jerome Baryayanga has been move to Agriculture police from International police. 
read: Kayihura: Police rotten at the bottom ‘‘me am clean’’, vows to build Police afresh 
The reshuffle has also affected regional police commanders in policing regions like North Kyoga, East Kyoga, Great Masaka, Aswa, Rwizi, among others. The transfers affected key departments including Counter Terrorism, Tourism, Interpol, Field Force Unit, IGP’s office and Logistics among others.