April 15, 2018 DISOWNED: Angela Katatumba. 
The High Commission for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan based in Nairobi has dismissed Angelina Katatumba as the Consular in Uganda describing her as fake. In a public notice, the Commission says ever since Bonny Katatumba died, their government has never appointed any representative to Uganda as a Consulate. 
“The High Commission for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in Nairobi presents its complaints to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Uganda and all the Diplomatic Mission/Consulates/Honorary Consulates in Uganda and has the honour to refer to the latter’s Note verbal of even number dated October 25, 2017. The so-called Honorary Consulate of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan in Uganda is still operating illegally in Uganda. It had actually been ceased to function with the demise of our Honorary Consul Mr Bonny Katatumba , Government of Pakistan has not yet appointed a new Honorary Consul in Uganda.” The complaint to Ministry of Foreign Affairs Uganda reads. 
The High Commission further warns the Ugandan authorities especially Immigration officials not to honour any documents purportedly issued in the name of the Consulate. “This High Commission has further honour to inform the Honorary Consulate of Pakistan currently operating in Uganda under Angelina Katatumba is fake and fictitious and has no legal authority at all” 
The Diplomatic Note Ms. Katatumba, has been falsifying that she is Acting Consul of Pakistan to Uganda, ever since the demise of her father was on Thursday morning in the company of visiting Jamaican artiste commonly known as Kuzi Kz, beaten at Chicken Tonight outlet in Kabalagala. 
In camera footage, Ms Katatumba is seen haggling with KFC staff identified as Manager Olubrwoth Ochoka, watchman Dennis Okirot and John Kaddu, a waiter. But the incident had not gone without criticism and many were asking why the diplomat and heiress of the Katatumba Business Empire didn’t have her security detail given the odd hours at which she was travelling. But now the denial by the High Commission in Nairobi unmasks her as being no diplomat. Post Views: 473