Museveni apologises for deploying soldiers on lakes President Museveni. FILE PHOTO In Summary The District Woman MP, Agnes Taaka Wejuli, said much as Operation Wealth Creation (OWC) is supplying oranges, mangoes and coffee, there is need to add value to their products. The area MP Silwany asked for increased electricity supply in Bugiri District, mainly in the Sub-counties of Kitoda so that locals can access light. Advertisement By PHILIP WAFULA & RONALD SEEBE 
President Museveni has apologized to Ugandans for deploying the Uganda People’s Defence Forces [UPDF] on lakes to fight illegal fishing practices. 
Mr Museveni said the UPDF were trained to fight wars but after 'unpatriotic fishermen' resorted to fishing pre mature fish, he was forced to deploy them. 
"I decided to deploy army officers because the marine police was defeated by fishermen and had become fish thieves. But it is very sad because I hear complaints that soldiers are canning you but the canes came after resistance from fishermen to stop fishing young fish which was killing the country’s economy,’’ Museveni said. 
The President was on Saturday speaking at Isakabusolo Primary School playgrounds in Bulida Sub-county in Bugiri District as the chief guest at the thanksgiving ceremony of Bukooli Central Member of Parliament, Solomon Silwany. 
He said lakes are some of the country’s sources of revenue but bad fishing practices being carried out on them before the intervention of the army were affecting Uganda’s revenue got from lakes. He said premature fish were being caught and lakes were almost exhausted. 
Related content Fish prices rise in Busoga as UPDF operations pay off 
‘’I want to tell you that I heard your complaints and I'm soon going to summon elders and MPs from Busoga Sub-region to a meeting and we discuss and adopt good fishing practices to be used on our lakes,’’ Mr Museveni said. 
On electricity, he said one of the NRM’s core mandate is to extend power to all Sub-counties in Uganda so that people can have access to power. 
"Uganda has a total of 1,500 Sub-counties and only 287 have no power; but we are working to ensure that the remaining 287 Sub-counties also get power for development of their area,’’ he said, conceding that the NRM Government has done something to see that education standards in the country get better though there are still some challenges which are soon going to be worked on. 
He donated 600 iron sheets and 400 bags of cement to Makoma and Isakabusolso Primary Schools to help in their construction. 
Area MP Silwany asked for increased electricity supply in Bugiri District, mainly in the Sub-counties of Kitoda so that locals can access light. 
"Mr President, the power in Bugiri District are just like small droplets of water and are not enough for the people; so we request for more power," he said, adding that the state of Bugiri Referral Hospital is very alarming and needs rehabilitation. 
The District Woman MP, Agnes Taaka Wejuli, said much as Operation Wealth Creation (OWC) is supplying oranges, mangoes and coffee, there is need to add value to their products. 
She also asked for affirmative action for the people of Bugiri District like it is in other districts by appealing to President Museveni to increase on the Women Entrepreneurship Fund which Bugiri District is also a beneficiary; so that more women can access it and start income-generating activities. 
“People of Bugiri love NRM and voted for NRM but it is time for them to be rewarded,’’ she said. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com