Meet CP Moses Kafeero, the new Kampala city commander Moses Kafeero Kabugo. Courtesy photo In Summary Kafeero was born on August 17, 1976 in Mukono District –Uganda to the late Samuel Kabugo a seasoned teacher and Ms Joyce Kabugo, a teacher and Mothers Union Diocesan worker at Mukono Diocese for many years. His most recent appointment was Commandant Police Senior Command and Staff College Bwebajja where his capabilities were reportedly assessed and assigned a bigger task of commanding Kampala Metropolitan Police. Advertisement By Monitor Correspondent 
Following the transfer changes in police command and leadership recently made by IGP Martins Okoth-Ochola, CP. Moses Kafeero Kabugo has been appointed as the new Kampala Metropolitan Police Commander replacing CP. Frank Mwesigwa who also assumes office as the new Commandant Tourism Police. 
Police say CP Kafeero is welcomed with great expectations from the general public that include preventing the increased kidnap for ransom incidents , investigating offences and accounting to the public, proactive targeting and apprehension of criminals, sustaining public order and protecting people particularly those in immediate danger from harm, improving accessibility and engagement with local communities, increasing visibility of the police on the streets during acute traffic jam hours, fighting against the mushrooming cases of fraud and burglary in the suburbs of the city, treating public members with civility and respect and finally working positively with the media to improve on the image of the force within Kampala and its surroundings. Who is CP Moses Kafeero? 
Kafeero was born on August 17, 1976 in Mukono District –Uganda to the late Samuel Kabugo a seasoned teacher and Ms Joyce Kabugo, a teacher and Mothers Union Diocesan worker at Mukono Diocese for many years.He holds a Master's of Peace Studies and Conflict Transformation from University of Rwanda,Strategic Leadership and Management -Level 7 from Chartered ManagementInstitute (CMI) -UK,Master of Arts Education Management and Planning from Nkumba University, Bachelor of Science with Education majoring in Mathematics from Makerere University. He studied his A-Level from Makerere College School, O-level from Bishop's Secondary School Mukono, Primary at Bishop's Primary School in Mukono and sat his P.7 at Wobulenzi Parents School. 
Kafeero first enrolled and passed out as a cadet police officer in 2005 at Police Training School Kibuli and has since attended a number of police courses in various fields including;Certificate (Counter Terrorism) from International Law Enforcement Academy in Botswana, Certificate (Intellectual Property crime Investigations) from INTEROL Headquarters Lyon-France, Certificate (UN Pre -Deployment Course) from Humanitarian Peace Support School Nairobi, Certificate in Skills development for Security Managers from Egyptian Police Academy, Public Order Commander’s Certificate fromPolice Improvement Agency in UK, United Nations Police Commander’s Certificate fromUPDF - Command and Staff College -Jinja, Financial Management Certificate fromUganda Management Institute,Diploma in Curriculum Development from University of Applied Sciences, Leiden - Netherlands, Senior Command and Staff Course ‘psc’ (R)from National Police College-Rwanda,Strategic Command and Leadership from College of Policing in Bramshill, United Kingdom and is currently pursuing an International Law Enforcement Counter Terrorism and Crisis Command Certificate at Academy Rosewell in USA. 
He has overtime won a number of awards including; the Meritorious Service Award by President Museveni on June 9, 2015 at the Uganda Hero’s day Celebrations for his excellent performance in community policing, investigations and operations, Sir. Wavamuno Award for presenting the most outstanding Masters Desertation from Nkumba University in 2014, Best Allied Student Award from National Police College in Rwanda.CP. Kafeero has excelled in various assignments assigned to him which are not limited to serving as a dedicated officer in different capacities which include working as Officer in Charge Kabale Police Station from 2005 – 2006, District Police Commander Isingiro in 2006, Deputy Commandant Police Training School Kabalye from 2006 – 2009, Regional Police Commander Kampala Southfrom 2009 – 2011, Commandant Police Training School Kabalye, Masindi - Uganda from 2011 – 2015. 
His most recent appointment was Commandant Police Senior Command and Staff College Bwebajja where his capabilities were reportedly assessed and assigned a bigger task of commanding Kampala Metropolitan Police.Kampala Metropolitan Police plays multiple roles and functions of critical importance to Uganda. Its comprised of 18 divisions namely CPS Kampala, Katwe, Kajjansi, Kabalagala, Old Kampala, Entebbe, Nsangi, Kakiri, Wakiso, Nansana, Kasangati, Kira Road, Kira Division, Jinja Road, Mukono, Nagalama. Wandegeya and Kawempe.It serves the entire country as the centre for administration, services, commerce, education and government. The area has got a population of about 4,123,713 people according to police. Related Stories