Mengo accuses Sembabule of taking over kingdom building In Summary Warning. The kingdom officials say their warning to the district leaders against renovating the building has fallen on deaf ears. Advertisement By MALIK FAHAD JJINGO &MOSES MUWULYA 
Sembabule. 
A row has erupted between Sembabule District administration and Buganda Kingdom officials over ownership of a building in the area.This follows a decision by the district administration led by the chairperson, Dr Elly Muhumuza, to renovate a community hall allegedly belonging to Buganda Kingdom.Kabaka’s chief-in-charge of Mawogola County, Mr Felix Nsamba Kabajo, insists the building is owned by Buganda Kingdom and that the district did not consult them before embarking on the repairs.“We wonder why the district is in a rush to renovate the community hall if it is not for selfish interests,” he said.“I attended some of the council meetings where they hatched a plan to take away that building and I challenged them [district] to show evidence that it belongs to the district but they failed. They should not continue claiming the property because they cannot prove that they are the rightful owners,” he said. He, however, asked the district administration to honour the agreement reached between the central government and the kingdom during the hand over of kingdom properties that were under the custody of the former. According to Mr Kabajo, the facility was constructed by Sir Edward Muteesa’s government in 1960s and is among the properties that have been under the control of the central government. He questioned how the district administration could own a building which existed before it was created. Sembabule District came into being in 2001 after it was carved out of traditional Masaka District. In 2013, government and Mengo signed a Memorandum of Understanding in which the former agreed to return all kingdom property, but a year later, when handing over some of the title deeds to Buganda Kingdom officials, President Museveni warned the kingdom against evicting tenants who have over the years occupied kingdom land and buildings.Mr Kabajo said he wrote to the district Chief Administrative Officer, Mr Willy Bataringaya, warning him against funding the renovation but he never listened. Dr Muhumuza, however, said the CAO will officially apply for a lease for the land housing the community hall from Buganda Land Board (BLB).Buganda officials allege that because the proposed crude oil pipe line from Hoima to the Tanzania port of Tanga will pass through some parts of Semabule, the district officials are renovating the building targeting the astronomical compensation from government. But Mr Jude Kiganda, the district vice chairperson, dismissed the allegations, saying the oil pipeline will not pass through the town council as claimed.He challenged Buganda Kingdom officials to present a land title for the contested land.“There is no proof that the building belongs to the kingdom. We have information that all the tittles returned to Mengo, none of them is for Sembabule and if they have it, let them present it,” he said. 
Copies of titles During a land sensitisation meeting in Sembabule last year, Mr Kiganda asked Lands Minister Betty Amongi to allow the district access copies of land titles government handed over to Buganda Kingdom, insisting that some could be belonging to districts.In 2014, the BLB chief executive officer, Mr Kyewalabye Male, announced that the board had assumed full powers effective August 1, 2013 to manage all properties that central government had confiscated in 1966 and districts have no mandate to sell or issues leases. However, Kyewalabye advised individuals who already hold titles on such land to work with BLB officials in their localities to have their titles regularised. advertisement