Monday April 16 2018 Mutai silver seals notable campaign Uganda's Munyo Solomon Mutai holds his national flag as he runs toward the finish line of the athletics men's marathon final during the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games at the Southport Broadwater Parklands venue on the Gold Coast on April 15, 2018. AFP PHOTO In Summary Commonwealth Games. Three years after winning bronze at the Beijing IAAF World Championships, Solomon Mutai reminded the world what an outstanding marathoner he is by landing silver in a grueling race ran on a very hot Sunday morning in Gold Coast yesterday Advertisement By Mark Namanya 
GOLD COAST. 
Solomon Mutai admitted yesterday that he had to control his pace “so as not to die” after he won silver in a dramatic marathon on the final day of the Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast.The attention for Uganda will firmly be on the silver, the country’s first in 16 years at the Games, but the headlines were written by Scottish runner Callum Hawkins. With a huge lead past the 40km mark and gold looking a certainty on live television, Hawkins collapsed and fell out of the race. The stricken runner attempted to gather himself and soldier on but his body evidently was incapable despite the best interests of his mind. 
Dramatic moments It was a distressing scene for which organisers have been vilified for not having given the runner prompt medical attention. At least he is not under any danger.Before Hawkins’ legs gave way, Mutai had moved into third after his Lesotho rival Tsepo Mathibelle pulled a hamstring.In those dramatic moments, Mutai had managed to climb from fourth to second en route to his silver.“The heat was a major problem and I told myself that rather than die, let me contain myself and keep my pace,” he noted. “I used my experience from Mombasa where I had run in similar heat and won to my advantage.”Mutai’s medal was the last of Uganda’s six in Gold Coast and it capped a satisfying two weeks in Australia for the 69-man contingent whose only sour note was the disappreance of two weight lifters Khalidi Batuusa and Irene Kasubo. Alex Chesakit managed to endure the heat to finish seventh in a time of 2:23:36. Robert Chemonges did not finish. Mutai told Daily Monitor that his next mission is to do well at the 2019 IAAF World Championships that will be staged in Doha, Qatar. 
Mutai season best