Monday April 16 2018 Rugby Cranes have work to do ahead of San Francisco Raw rookie. Aaron Ofoyrwoth is an exciting prospect that needs proper honing of his talent. PHOTO BY M. NAMANYA Advertisement By MARK NAMaNYA 
GOLD COAST. 
The Rugby Cranes will travel to San Francisco, USA for the Sevens World Cup aware that they must improve their communication and defence to compete favourably at the highest level.The team was overwhelmed in games against Wales and Fiji, the eventual silver medallists, but ended the Games with pride after stopping Sri Lanka 33-10.Philip Wokorach, whose boot contributed eight points in the victory over Sri Lanka, felt the team was a pack of nerves in the opening game against Wales.“We need to improve our patience and determination,” the younger Wokorach told Daily Monitor. “We need to learn how to work together. We tried it in the last game and it really worked out so well.”“We won the game perfectly. All our games plans were at par.” 
Rush mode Admittedly it was against a Sri Lankan team which was clearly a level or two below Uganda. But in the games against Wales and Fiji, the Rugby Cranes were in disarray.“In the first games we were panicking a lot. We had rush decisions made here and there which really cost us,” Wokorach explained.“We didn’t know any way of defending or attacking Fiji since it was the first time we played them.”“But we believe we learnt lessons and wouldn’t concede some cheap tries like that again.”Cranes were second best in tackling and looked like fish out of sea against the top ranked teams in Sevens Rugby but there were valuable lessons, according to Wokorach.“If we remain patient and determined, we will get better. There is nothing to rush; we just need to work together and stay with in the structure.” James Odongo got a try against Wales and Sri Lanka and finished as Uganda’s top scorer at Robina Stadium. The others who got on the scoresheet were Michael Wokorach, Pius Ogena, Adrian Kasito and Timothy Kisiga with a try each in the rout of Sri Lanka. Philip Wokorach kicked in four of his five conversations for eight points. 
Men’s Pool D rugby results 
Wales 31-5 Uganda