Monday April 16 2018 Uganda Sevens: Of stage fright and praying at rucks Learning curve. Captain Michael Wokorach and his teammates upstaged Sri Lanka but were no different from the metaphorical fish out of water during the losses suffered both in Australia and Hong Kong. FILE PHOTO Advertisement By Robert Madoi 
Your columnist recently met a rugby enthusiast who was full of bile after watching Uganda’s bid to become a core nation on the 2018/19 World Series fall flat on its face. Like many Ugandans, the aforementioned enthusiast thought it was something of a given that the Uganda Sevens would be allowed beyond the velvet rope to the front of the queue. 
It wasn’t and they weren’t. Two of the countries that Uganda lost against - Japan and Germany - went on to contest the final of the Hong Kong World Series qualifier. Japan won a fascinatingly enthralling arm wrestle at the death to ensure that they will - not for the first time - rub shoulders with the big boys during the 2018/19 World Series. While solace can be sought in the fact that Uganda lost at the hands of the eventual finalists, there is no running away from the fact that Tolbert Onyango’s charges play with the handbrake on whenever push comes to shove. Indeed it has become sharply evident that Uganda Sevens players have to find an antidote to the stage fright that always holds them captive at the big time. 
It also seems like the team has badly misread the trajectory of the breakdown in sevens rugby. One observer put it neatly when, in drawing onto an old aphorism, they said Uganda Sevens players ‘pray’ at rucks. It was a figurative expression that owes more to the fact that Uganda shows little or no physicality at the breakdown. But it could also mean that they go into physical contests hoping for some kind of divine intervention. 
Great significance This is gravely catastrophic because turning over the ball at the breakdown is of great significance nowadays. There has been a significant dip in the number of times teams are able to score without having a contest over the ball. It, therefore, goes without saying that the Uganda Sevens have to embrace physicality and lead their game plan around the breakdown. 
Tactical astuteness You get the sense that the proverbial penny long dropped for Onyango. The Kenyan coach has over the years earned a good reputation thanks in no small measure to his tactical astuteness. Onyango’s wide-wide plan in Hong Kong for instance looked to have added another feather in his cap after Uganda picked the scalps of Chile and Georgia on day one. The plan committed flyers to Uganda’s pack with the intention of creating mismatches with slower opponents. It was hugely successful in the first two outings, but came unstuck against Japan and Germany. Uganda Sevens players were no different from the metaphorical fish out of water during those losses. They particularly looked bereft of ideas when Germany was giving them a hiding. Many Ugandans back home were not pleased that Onyango chose to use Adrian Kasito sparingly in both matches. And rightly so. Onyango had his reasons and can probably justify why he threw his weight behind Aaron Ofoyrwoth. What he can’t justify and — dare I say — must be livid about is the manner in which his charges chose not to execute his wide-wide plan to the letter during the business end of the World Series qualifier. That plus the ‘praying’ at rucks must be deeply vexing.