‘‘It is sinful to live among poor people’’- Museveni tells religious leaders April 15,   
President Museveni has said that the outstanding challenge in Uganda is that of transforming wananchi from subsistence agriculture to commercial farming. The President made the remarks at his country home in Rwakitura, Kiruhuura District where he received a delegation of members of the Inter-Religious Council of Uganda, led by the Archbishop of Kampala, the Most Rev. Dr. Cyprian Kizito Lwanga. 
“Our challenge has been to transform the people of Kiruhuura and neighbouring areas from nomadism to commercial agriculture. There is need to transform them from subsistence. I am happy to note that the people of Ibanda District have installed solar power while using their own resources,” he said. - Advertisement - 
The delegation of the religious leaders that undertook the tour included the Mufti of Uganda, Sheikh Shaban Ramadhan Mubajje, the Archbishop of the Province of the Church of Uganda, the Most Rev. Stanley Ntagali, the Archbishop of the Seventh Day Adventist Church, Pastor Daniel Maate and Bishop Joshua Lwere who is the General Overseer of the National Fellowship of Born Again Pentecostal Churches of Uganda. Mr. Museveni informed the delegation that the people have been able to improve their household income. 
‘What we did here was to introduce exotic cattle breeds and teach people to keep a few cattle, that have high milk yields instead of keeping a large herd of the indigenous Ankole cows that had low milk yields. One has to own a big herd of Ankole cattle, to get sufficient milk to sell, while one could get more milk, from a few cows that are cross bred. This not only reduced pressure on land but also meant that even those with smaller pieces of land could benefit from diary farming”. He requested the religious leaders to return to the area and visit more people so that they may appreciate the achievements attained at the household level in line with the NRM Government’s programme of poverty eradication at the household level. 
The President said: The Bible says; “Let your light so shine before men, that they see your good deeds and praise your father who is in heaven”. It is therefore sinful to live among poor people, and let them remain poor, when you have the knowledge to help them transform. The President told his guests that Rushere Town, which is along the Lyantonde- Ibanda – Kamwenge – Fort Portal Road, and about 10 kilomrtres from Rwakitura, has got 78 milk cooling plants which is a sign of success. “My interest is to ensure that the people who are not educated can stop subsistence farming and embark on commercial agriculture,” he reiterated. 
President Museveni noted with concern the challenge of land fragmentation among a number of people in society especially after the death of heads of families. He termed the act as land disability and described land fragmentation practices as real danger to the country. He, therefore, urged the delegation of religious leaders to rally behind him in efforts to eradicate the retrogressive act of land fragmentation. 
He said that it was appropriate for the families to only share the proceeds accrued from their land and desist from the destructive practice of land fragmentation. 
read: Museveni to the Youth: Be patient, the jobs are coming 
Archbishop Cyprian Kizito Lwanga called on his fellow religious leaders in the country to work for the unity of the people and assured President Museveni that the faith-based groups in the country constitute a big army that will work for the eradication of poverty from households. “You stormed Kampala; we want you to storm all the Districts of Uganda in efforts to eradicate poverty,” he said.