Responded. Prof Elly Katunguka. PHOTO BY ALEX ESAGALA In Summary One of the applicants has petitioned the university tribunal to investigate the fairness of the selection process. Dr Peter Okello, who has been serving as Kyambogo University’s Academic Registrar in acting capacity, has protested the appointment of Dr Annie Begumisa as the new Acadmic Registrar. According to the new appointments, Prof Maria Musoke is the new Deputy Vice Chancellor in charge of Academic Affairs and Prof Fabian Nabugomo is the new Vice Chancellor in charge of Finance and Administration. Prof Musoke is a former chief librarian at Makerere University. Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA 
One of the candidates for a top management position at Kyambogo University has questioned the process of recruitment at the institution. 
Dr Peter Okello, who has been serving as Kyambogo University’s Academic Registrar in acting capacity, has protested the appointment of Dr Annie Begumisa as the new Acadmic Registrar. 
On March 19, he petitioned the Tribunal, which is the university’s court, expressing discontent over the process of appointment of the new Academic Registrar.“…I have noted with concern that the process hasn’t been fair, marred with conflict of interest by some members of top management, personal vendetta, bias and malice aforethought,” he wrote. 
Dr Begumisa is a former Academic Registrar of Makerere University Business School.The positions, which were filled last month, include that of deputy vice-chancellor in charge of Academics, deputy vice chancellor in charge of Finance, academic registrar, senior legal officer, public relations officer, auditor and bursar. 
Dr Okello further claims that his merited performance in the department of the Academic Registrar of Kyambogo University since 1993 is a fact to be reckoned with, hence the tribunal must thoroughly investigate the entire search process. He has been working as the Academic Registrar for the last one year following the expiry of the contract of Ms Rose Bwire. 
Sources at the University intimated to this newspaper that the contested appointment of Dr Begumisa has left the top members of management divided. 
At the centre of controversy is the jobs of the Academic Registrar, Deputy Vice-chancellor in charge of Academic affairs and Vice-Chancellor in charge of Finance and Administration. 
According to the new appointments, Prof Maria Musoke is the new Deputy Vice Chancellor in charge of Academic Affairs and Prof Fabian Nabugomo is the new Vice Chancellor in charge of Finance and Administration. Prof Musoke is a former chief librarian at Makerere University. 
When the position of the Academic Registrar was advertised, Kyambogo University Senior Administrative Staff Association (Kyusasa) petitioned Prof John Okedi, the chairperson of the University’s council on March 17, protesting the new appointments.“…the purpose of this letter is that the University council halts the appointments and first reviews the above appointments after considering the complaints raised to avoid litigation in courts of laws,” reads in part the letter. 
VC RESPONDS Confirmed. Prof Katunguka in an interview with Daily Monitor on Friday confirmed receipt of the complaints but he said the search committee did their job.“Not every person can be satisfied in a race, but I strongly believe that the search committee did their best,” he said. advertisement