Museveni donates Shs5 billion to 110 groups in Rukungiri President Yoweri Museveni. Advertisement By PEREZ RUMANZI 
RUKUNGIRI- President Yoweri Museveni has donated money, trucks, mini buses and an assortment of machinery worth over Shs5 billion to 110 groups of people in Rukungiri District, ostensibly to help them fight poverty. 
The beneficiaries received the items on Sunday at Rukungiri Stadium. 
Rukungiri is the home of Dr Kizza Besigye, the four-time presidential candidate, a political nemesis of Mr Museveni. Rukungiri Municipality is represented by Mr Roland Mugume Kaginda, a member of the Opposition Forum for Democratic Change (FDC), a party that was founded by Dr Besigye and a group of other politicians. 
Mr Museveni explained that he picked the money from the State House purse not from the national treasury.The items that were donated by Mr Museveni included motorcycles, mini-buses, sewing machines, tents, chairs, garage equipment and motor vehicle spare parts among others. 
“The money I am using here; I have taken it from my pocket as President but there is a lot of money in your government but you don’t know how to get it. You don’t know each other and you don’t care. The young ones [people] have been caught up in FDC which is deceiving them,” Mr Museveni said. 
On March 22, the Court of Appeal nullified the election of Rukungiri District Woman MP, Ms Winnie Masiko (National Resistance Movement) citing irregularities during the 2016 polls. 
FDC’s Betty Muzanira petitioned the court accusing her rival of donating various items during the campaigns. The Electoral Commission (EC) has set May 31 as the day for the by-election to elect the next district Woman MP. 
Mr Museveni said he rushed to the district to deliver the donations so that he doesn’t “get caught up” with electoral laws which bar candidates and their supporters from giving out donations during campaigns. 
“When I was still in Kampala thinking of how I will reach to these groups, I heard your confusion starting again, that the woman who has been representing in Parliament has been brought down and that you will be going for another election,” he said. “I thought these people will destroy my thinking because according to electoral laws, [I am] not allowed to drive people from poverty. When these people of elections have started, they distract me.” 
He advised Ugandans to give birth to children they can adequately provide for. “Lack of family planning makes a person poor. You find a person giving birth to too many [children] without planning on how much [wealth] he has. He later dies and the children are left with nothing,” he said. “I don’t say you don’t give birth to many children because for me, I want soldiers. But give birth to those you can [support].” 
Groups that benefited Rukungiri Special Hire Pickup and Car Association- 5million Kibimbiri Tukorere Hamwe Group – 5million Kagashe Bamwe Development Association – 5million Nyakihanga Tukore Namani- 5million Rukungiri Municipality NRM women- 10million Nyakihanga (4 groups) -10million