Police officers working with thieves- Spokesperson, Emilian Kayima   
Some police officers are working with thugs who kill and rob boda boda riders across the country, police spokesperson, Emilian Kayima, has said. Kayima told journalists in Kampala on Monday that thugs arrested in connection to boda boda robbery have revealed names of some police officers they work with in executing their missions. 
He said thugs working with police officers rob motorcycles and sell them to unsuspecting buyers in the upcountry districts. Police cited one senior detective, James Ogwal, attached to Kabalagala police station who had allegedly been working with criminals to rob motorcycles. - Advertisement - 
Ogwal was arrested on Friday afternoon and detained at Mawanda Road police station. However, he was reportedly found dead. Ogwal reportedly hanged himself in the bathroom using a sponge. His body was recovered by his fellow officers on Saturday morning The late reportedly left a note with 13 names of other police officers he was been working with in boda bodas robberies. 
Meanwhile Police has arrested a man believed to be part of the house breaking gangs. The suspect identified as Charles Bbaale was arrested following an arborted robbery incident where he later confessed naming his colleagues on the run. Kampala Metropolitan police spokesperson Luke Owoyesigyire said that after getting intelligence information from Bbaale, detectives begun the hunt for his accomplices who were later also arrested. They are Godfrey Mukasa from Saalama, John Kankaka from Kitebi, Martin Mwesigwa from Kitebi and Peter Kizza Ssemugenyi. 
“There has been a gang breaking into houses and robbing people of their property.We first arrested one of the members who later named his accomplices,”Owoyesigyire said He added that after arresting them , their houses were searched and found tv sets and beer robbed from Nyange resort in Kawuku and tools used to break into houses. 
Owoyesigyire added that some of the suspects had ever been arrested including John Kankaka who was arrested by flying squad in Kyotera for participating in armed robbery together with Mwesigwa and detained in Masaka before returning to Kampala after serving their punishments. - Advertisement -