Museveni donates 5 billion to groups in Rukungiri- ‘‘I got the money from my pocket as President’’   
President Museveni on Sunday donated money, trucks, mini buses and an assortment of machinery worth over Ugx. 5 billion to 110 groups of people in Rukungiri District, to help them fight poverty. Rukungiri is home district for FDC’s Kizza Besigye. 
The items that were donated included motorcycles, mini-buses, sewing machines, tents, chairs, garage equipment and motor vehicle spare parts among others. “I have helped you but wake up. If you work well, you will achieve a lot. NRM enabled you to choose people so that you may be served well. I want the district leaders to prioritize so that the various sectors such as carpentry, textiles and others, are facilitated with the goal of ensuring that people have the capacity to generate income,” Mr. Museveni said. - Advertisement - 
The President was on Sunday speaking at the commissioning and handing over ceremony of a common user timber workshop in Rukungiri District, explained that he picked the money from the State House purse not from the national treasury. “The money I am using here; I have taken it from my pocket as President but there is a lot of money in your government but you don’t know how to get it. You don’t know each other and you don’t care. The young ones have been caught up in FDC which is deceiving them,” he said. 
The President has said that the NRM government plans to have machine, carpentry, ceramics and textiles tools made in Uganda to further facilitate the availability of such tools at a low cost. 
Find poverty The president advised Ugandans to give birth to children they can adequately provide for. 
“Lack of family planning makes a person poor. You find a person giving birth to too many children without planning on how much [wealth] he has. He later dies and the children are left with nothing,” he said. “I don’t say you don’t give birth to many children because for me, I want soldiers. But give birth to those you can support.”he said. 
Groups that benefited from president’s donations Rukungiri Special Hire Pickup and Car Association- 5million Kibimbiri Tukorere Hamwe Group – 5million Kagashe Bamwe Development Association – 5million Nyakihanga Tukore Namani- 5million 
Rukungiri Municipality NRM women- 10million Nyakihanga (4 groups) -10million