Home / SPORTS / United stars face axe as Mourinho fumes United stars face axe as Mourinho fumes The Independent April 17, 2018 SPORTS Leave a comment 157 Views 
London, United Kingdom | AFP | Jose Mourinho has vowed to drop several of Manchester United’s stars as he fumes over their lacklustre loss to West Bromwich Albion. 
United crashed to a shock 1-0 home defeat against bottom of the table Albion on Sunday as Jay Rodriguez sealed the visitors’ first Premier League win in three months. 
The limp performance gift-wrapped the Premier League title for arch rivals Manchester City and left United boss Mourinho seething. FT: #MUFC 0 West Brom 1. pic.twitter.com/kT4XslWF34 
— Manchester United (@ManUtd) April 15, 2018 
He accused his players of resting on their laurels after beating City two weeks ago. 
Now Mourinho will take action when he selects his team for Wednesday’s Premier League trip to Bournemouth and Saturday’s FA Cup semi-final against Tottenham at Wembley. 
“Rotating is not the right word,” Mourinho said. “If I play a player against Bournemouth and the player is phenomenal, he plays the semi-final. 
“So is not rotating, because rotating looks like a player that plays against Bournemouth is to give a rest to somebody that is going to play against Spurs in the semi-final. 
“So, the word is not rotation, it is an opportunity for people, for some people to play and to try to get a place in the team for Spurs – and some of the guys that played (against West Brom), they don’t have a place in that team.” Jose Mourinho says any good performances against Bournemouth tomorrow night will be rewarded with a place in the team for our @EmiratesFACup semi-final… pic.twitter.com/IKPxIW9sYd 
— Manchester United (@ManUtd) April 17, 2018 
Asked to clarify if he meant that some of those who under-performed against West Brom would now not play against Tottenham, Mourinho retorted: “Yeah. 
“What is the criteria for a manager to choose a team? I only know one criteria: the way you play is the only way I can select players. 
“Or do you want me to go for the price they cost, or their salary, or their beautiful face? The only way is to go with performance.” Share on: