Uganda’s Sherifah Tumusiime Wins Prestigious Commonwealth Award   
Ugandan innovator Sherifah Tumusiime has been named as the Commonwealth Youth Award Regional Winner for Africa and Europe. Tumusiime is the founder of Zimba Group, a start up business that provides technology and software solutions for SMEs. 
It also provides tools, technologies, platforms and networks to improve the livelihood of women in Sub-Saharan Africa. She was handed the award on Monday at the Commonwealth Youth Award - Advertisement - 
The Commonwealth Youth Awards for Excellence in Development Work celebrate the contribution of young people to achieving global development goals. 
read: Ugandan, Jessica Nabongo set to become first black woman to visit every Country in the World 
In 2015, she was inaugurated as a YALI Fellow, an exceptional leadership program initiated by former U.S president Barack Obama to foster leadership training among young African leaders on the world stage. She is the founder of Uganda’s first online babystore. And among others, she is a comp science grad from Uganda’s historical and most prestigious university, Makerere. 
While she expressed discomfort toward the label “social enterprise,” and particularly social tech because she felt it was limiting, she was generous enough to share with us her experience in the trenches. We had the opportunity of picking her brain on social tech entrepreneurship in Uganda, and sub-Saharan Africa at large. 
The fledgling Zimba Women has big plans. It has trained over 250 women since its inception in 2014, 60 of which are actively running their own businesses. 
Zimba Women recognised a significant void in the ecosystem that wasn’t inclusive of women and girls’ participation. Progress on gender equity is somewhat feeble and lacks the ambition the media has conditioned us to expect. The first steps are what are the most important: a foundation that is built on solid rock. One that can withstand difficult phases and can take on any form of tribulation without sinking. - Advertisement -