Church launches cashless payments for followers   
In an increasingly cashless era, churches will now be able to offer cashless payment options for events including weddings, christenings, church fetes and concerts, as well for making one-off donations and the booking of churches and halls. 
The Church of England announced on Tuesday that it is making contactless, virtual terminal, and SMS mobile payments available throughout England, in a bid to make transactions faster and easier for the Church’s congregations. The church will be rolling out contactless, virtual, terminal and SMS mobile payments throughout England so churches will be able to offer cashless payment options for events from weddings to christenings to concerts – as well as making one-off donations or booking of churches and halls. - Advertisement - 
Over 16,000 churches, cathedrals, and religious sites will now have access to portable card readers through the Church of England’s parish buying portal it has established in a partnership with SumUp and iZettle. The readers will be used to take contactless payments, Apple Pay and Google Pay, as well as chip & PIN capable. The church says the pay-as-you-go pricing is well suited to the needs of religious institutions, charging only a small transaction fee when the reader is used. The decision follows a trial which began in summer 2017 in cathedrals and parish churches. 
Technology facilitating charitable donations on a self-service basis, including passing around a reader for the collection, continues to be trialled and is expected to be launched in phase two of the project. John Preston, National Stewardship Officer of the Church of England said: “There is a clear need for our parishes to introduce card and contactless facilities and we are excited to make this available through Parish Buying. How we pay for things is changing fast, especially for younger church-goers, who no longer carry cash, and we want all generations to be able to make the most of their place of worship.