Uganda denies plans to deploy 8,000 UPDF in Yemen   
Uganda’s Defence Ministry has dismissed claims that United Arab Emirates (UAE) plans hire services of UPDF to reinforce its military operations in Yemen. 
Quoting sources, the news site Arabi21 published in Arabic reported on Tuesday that Crown Prince of Abu Dhabi Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan plans to visit Uganda soon to sign several agreements, including one which would see 8,000 fighters sent to Yemen to support UAE forces there. Another 2,000 fighters would be sent to Somalia. - Advertisement - 
read: Uganda sends 1,800 soldiers to Somalia 
The publication quoting sources reported that, UAE wants the help of the Ugandan soldiers because it fears that Sudan will withdraw its forces from the Saudi-led coalition in Yemen and the strategy hasn’t been coordinated in advance with Saudi Arabia. 
However, The UPDF Spokesperson Brig Richard Karemire is quoted saying, “No UPDF soldiers are headed for the Republic of Yemen.” Uganda maintains troops in Somalia and has previously deployed in South Sudan, Rwanda, DRC, Equatoria Guinea and Central African Republic. Yemen, one of the Arab world’s poorest countries, has been devastated by a civil war The conflict has its roots in the failure of a political transition supposed to bring stability to Yemen following an Arab Spring uprising that forced its longtime authoritarian president, Ali Abdullah Saleh, to hand over power to his deputy Abdrabbuh Mansour Hadi, in 2011. 
read: Saudi Arabia opens doors to Ugandan job seekers 
President Hadi struggled to deal with a variety of problems, including attacks by al-Qaeda, a separatist movement in the south, the continuing loyalty of many military officers to Mr Saleh, as well as corruption, unemployment and food insecurity. The Houthi movement, which champions Yemen’s Zaidi Shia Muslim minority and fought a series of rebellions against Mr Saleh during the previous decade, took advantage of the new president’s weakness by taking control of their northern heartland of Saada province and neighbouring areas. 
Disillusioned with the transition, many ordinary Yemenis – including Sunnis – supported the Houthis and in late 2014 and early 2015, the rebels took over Sanaa. The president escaped to the southern port city of Aden the following month. The Houthis and security forces loyal to Mr Saleh – who is thought to have backed his erstwhile enemies in a bid to regain power – then attempted to take control of the entire country, forcing Mr Hadi to flee abroad in March 2015. 
Alarmed by the rise of a group they believed to be backed militarily by regional Shia power Iran, Saudi Arabia and eight other mostly Sunni Arab states began an air campaign aimed at restoring Mr Hadi’s government. The coalition received logistical and intelligence support from the US, UK and France. - Advertisement -