April 17, 2018 Health Minister, Dr.Ruth Aceng making a point during the presentation. 
With the recent rise in Cholera cases across the country, the Ministry of Health has warned the public to be vigilant and report suspected cases to authorities. 
According to the ministry, as part of its strategic plan to eliminate the disease in Uganda, it is set to roll out the Oral Cholera Vaccine (OCV) in Cholera prone districts of Hoima, Buliisa, Pakwach, Nebbi, Kasese, Ntoroko, Zombo, Moyo, Busia, Namayingo and Arua. 
In a release the Acting Director General of Health Services Charles Olora said the vaccination will be carried out in four phases: Phase One: Hoima District in May 2018, Phase Two: Buliisa, Pakwach and Nebbi in July 2018, Phase Three: Kasese, Ntoroko, Zombo, Moyo, Busia, Namayingo and Arua in October 2018. 
The ministry says the World Health Organization (WHO), UNICEF and GAVI have helped secure a total of 360,000 doses of OCV to vaccinate residents in the five sub-counties of Kyangwali, Kabwoya, Buseruka, Bugambe and Kahoora division as well as the refugee population in Kyangwali refugee settlement in Hoima district. 
Oral Cholera Vaccine is administered orally for persons above one year to protect them against Cholera, a severe, potentially epidemic, life-threatening diarrheal disease. The vaccine is administered in two doses which are given two weeks apart and offers individuals protection of up to 5 years. 
Dr. Olora, in a statement, says OCV will be used as part of the Ministry of Health’s Integrated Cholera prevention and control strategy (including safe water, improved sanitation, and high-quality case management) and is in line with the on-going Cholera elimination activities. The vaccine reduces the risk of an individual getting sick with or dying of Cholera. 
To further arrest transmission of Cholera, the Ministry and partners continue to undertake interventions: Intensified case management and surveillance of Cholera cases, construction of new household latrines and hand washing facilities, distribution of Aqua-tablets in all affected villages and active social mobilization and sensitization of communities on Cholera and its prevention and control measures. 
The ministry urges the public to be vigilant and report any suspected Cholera cases and other strange deaths to the nearest health facility or call our toll-free line, 0800-100-066. Post Views: 79