53 year old Norwegian woman arrested with narcotic drugs at Entebbe Airport   
Police at Entebbe Airport has arrested a Norwegian national for alleged possession of narcotic drugs The suspect identified as Arntzen Karin Elizabeth 53 Years was arrested at the baggage screening point. 
On searching, three polythene bags wrapped with a cellotape were recovered with suspected heroine weighing 3706 grams which has since been submitted to GAL Wandegeya for analysis. - Advertisement - 
Arntzen Elizabeth was intending to travel to Brussels aboard Brussels Flight SN 3169. A case file AVPOL CRB 065/2018 has since opened and charged with unlawful possession of Narcotic drugs c/s 4(1) and 2(a) of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (Control) Act 2016. 
The arrest of the two suspects brings to five, the number of people arrested for alleged drug trafficking and distribution over last couple of weeks Early this month, 37-year-old Laudato Nassimo, an Italian and 64-year-old Antonio Manuel, a Portuguese national, were arrested separately at Entebbe international airport as they attempted to travel with the heroine in their luggage. Nassimo who was in transit to Brussels, Belgium aboard SN Brussels Airlines was found with 3kgs of heroin while Manuel who was heading to Amsterdam, the Netherlands aboard Egypt Air was found with more than 6kgs of the narcotic drug. 
Police spokesperson Emilian Kayima said that the drug was found hidden in the false bottom of the suspect’s luggage which can hardly be seen by the scans. Manuel’s luggage also had an anti-dog repellent, a device used to dispel aggressive dogs. It also stops dogs from sniffing the heroin. Early this month Idrissa Traore, a Malian national and resident of Bunga in Kampala, was arrested at Bamako building in Namasuba where he had been carrying out his cocaine distribution business. His cover was blown by another suspect Musa Fofana, a Burundian national who was arrested earlier at Bujumbura airport with 7kgs of heroin. During a search at the Traore’s building, police recovered 36 pellets of heroin and two travel bags with heroin concealed on both sides. - Advertisement -