Home / SPORTS / Uganda team set to fly back from Gold Coast minus two weightlifters Uganda team set to fly back from Gold Coast minus two weightlifters The Independent April 17, 2018 SPORTS Leave a comment 170 Views Uganda’s flagbearer Peace Proscovia leads the delegation during the opening ceremony of the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games at the Carrara Stadium on the Gold Coast on April 4, 2018. Two players are missing. 
Weightlifters still missing in Gold Coast – Ogwel 
Gold Coast, US | THE INDEPENDENT | The two weightlifters who disappeared during the just ended 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games are still missing. 
” We are set to leave Australia on Wednesday, but the two athletes have not yet showed up,” Dr Patrick Ogwel, the team manager and also assistant general Secretary of the National Council of Sports (NCS) told URN on Tuesday. 
Ogwel said although they still don’t know where the two Irene Kasuubo and Kalidi Batuusa vanished to, they have alerted authorities in Australia. 
State Minister for Sports, Charles Bakkabulindi told URN that he will wait for a report from the team officials explaining how the athletes disappeared. “These athletes who disappear when they have traveled to represent Uganda at International competitions give the country bad image,” reasoned the State Minister who was also in Australia to watch the Games. 
Bakkabulindi asked the two athletes to return to Uganda as soon as possible before their visas expire next month or they might be shut out from representing Uganda again. 
Last week authorities in Australia said Ugandan and a Rwandan athlete had failed to return to the Games Village. Eight other Cameroonians who had vanished earlier have also never been seen. 
Uganda finished in 15th place at the Games after entering 69 athletes in 11 disciplines. Joshua Kiprui Cheptegei won two gold medals in the 5,000m and 10,000m, while Stella Chesang bagged the women’s 10,000m gold medal. Marathoner Solomon Mutai got silver in the marathon, Mercyline Chelangat bagged a bronze in the women’s 10,000m race, while boxer Juma Miiro picked a bronze medal in the 46-49kg weight category.