Kajjansi mu Line: Home of bars that never go to sleep Kajjansi mu Line is a small slum in developed Kajjansi area. Photos by Ismail Kezaala In Summary Hidden behind Kajjansi Police station, little known Kajjansi mu Line is a haven for lovers of local brew and low income earners. Despite being an area with a lot of bars and alcohol, the security is surprisingly very good.Kajjansi Line vice chairperson Esther Mubazzi says the area being located behind Kajjansi Police station gives it automatic assurance of security. Advertisement By David S. Mukooza 
When you get to Kajjansi, you would not imagine it would have a zone as underdeveloped as “Kajjansi mu Line”. The Mu Line is a small slum in a largely developed area. When you hear the word line, you will automatically think of items placed in a sequence. About 18km from Kampala, lies the famous town of Kajjansi and the zone called Kajjansi mu line, a developing slum that lies in the middle of a very vibrant and developed area on Entebbe road in Wakiso District. 
A small area in the middle of Kajjansi Town behind Kajjansi Police Station and adjacent to Uganda Clays Limited is, Kajjansi mu Line, a place that never goes to sleep. When you walk through Kajjansi Line, you will always find someone drunk and staggering in the road regardless of the time of day. Famous for selling local brew called malwa and other cheap alcohol, Kajjansi mu Line attracts many people from surrounding areas such as Lweza, Kawotto. However, the area vice chairperson Esther Mubazzi, says the area has improved a bit, with good houses and commercial structures gradually cropping up. 
Origin of the name “line”Originally, the area used to be inhabited by Acholi and Joluo, who mostly worked at Uganda Clays Limited. They were very many and they flocked the area from their villages because Uganda Clays needed a lot of unskilled labour. They had built their small houses in lines and that is why the area was called “Line”. Famous for selling malwa, the place attracts a large number of people and hence the presence of a small bar in every five or so metres. 
Business. The area is very busy, with the biggest business being bars and beer depots that also serve surrounding areas. Very many retail shops have also been setup and mini markets that sell items to the residents in small and affordable quantities. Ismael Ssenkeeto, who owns a small butchery says he is forced to sell a quarter kilogramme of meat because people cannot afford a kilogramme. 
Standard of living Most of the people in this area are low income earners. Abubaker Lubwama, who has been a resident of the area for more than 20 years, says because of the different developments in the surrounding areas, the cost of living in Kajjansi mu Line is very high with a meal that used to go for less than a dollar now an impossibility to get unless one is going to feast on the famous kikomando. 
Lubwama also says development of Kajjansi Trading Centre has had a negative impact on Kajjansi Line despite piped water. He, however, adds that: “We still have issues with hygiene because of the congestion and the many bars where people urinate everywhere causing a stench as you enter into the area.” 
Housing, land and rent There is no land for sale in Kajjansi mu Line as all the land is fully settled on. There are only houses for rent.It is said that most of the land belonged to the late Yowasi Bulega, a wealthy land owner in the area. After his death, the children upon securing the letters of administration started asking people to buy the land that they settled on. However, the cost was high because the area is close to the trading centre. 
Mubazzi says 90 per cent of the people are tenants because the owners of the land. They rent one roomed houses. A one roomed house in Kajjansi Line costs around Shs50,000 a month. The few who rent double roomed houses that go for Shs100,000, will use one as a bar and the second as one to stay in. However, Mubazzi, says with the new developments, better looking structures are being constructed, a commercial room goes for Shs300,000. 
Religious aspect Despite being an area filled with mostly bars, there is a church in the area – St Paul Church of Uganda. It is the only church and worship place in the area. Muslims have to cross through Kajjansi Trading Centre to go for prayers while Catholics go to the Catholic church in Uganda Clays. Mubazzi, who is a member of St Paul church, says it has helped them preach the word of God to the people in the area and also shape the morals. 
Security Despite being an area with a lot of bars and alcohol, the security is surprisingly very good.Kajjansi Line vice chairperson Esther Mubazzi says the area being located behind Kajjansi Police station gives it automatic assurance of security.“In fact the police officers are some of the major customers in the area. They come after work to have a good time in the evening,” Mubazzi says. “However, with the big population and the different people that flock the area, especially in the evening, cases of bar fights over women are the ones commonly reported. There are few cases of theft especially of phones.”Mubazzi says the area is relatively peaceful. 
dsmukooza@ug.nationmedia.com