Wednesday April 18 2018 Pair curtains with blinds Selecting the right fabric and colour of blinds and curtains will help you achieve the look you want. Photo by Isaac Ssejombwe In Summary According Doreen Azaninka, an interior designer with Azan Interiors, curtains and blinds change the perception of the different window sizes. A standard window size may appear to be larger with long curtains and blinds paired well together as the ceiling may also appear much taller than it really is helping to draw beauty in the house. Advertisement By Phionah Nassanga 
The right curtains can change the look of one’s house. However, when paired with blinds, the two can bring out a flexible decor ensuring enough light and privacy. When matching curtains and blinds, it is best to decide on the type of blinds you want and for which space. The most commonly used are roller blinds and venetian blinds. However, pay attention to the colour and fabric selections as they appear in a range colours. 
Choose the type Ivan Wandeke of payless interior designers in Kiyembe, says blinds are of different types and so are the functions. Before choosing blinds, know their rightful placement. For example, the vertical blinds with single slats are most preferable in offices regardless of colour and material used. In homes, the most used blinds are the horizontal ones because they can be lowed and lifted back. 
Wood blinds “For a more natural look in the house, wood blinds can be a right choice when paired well with curtains that have the same trait,” Wandeka explains.He says because wood blinds have a bit of dull natural colours combining them with bright coloured curtains can clearly bring out the beauty of the accent colours to the rest of the room depending on where one may choose to apply them. However, if you do not like bright colours, go for colours that are not very eye catching but can match well with the paint on the walls, and colour of the carpet. The sofas can also blend well with a variety of blind styles. 
Roller blinds Unlike wood blinds, rollers are made out of different fabrics. Shanir Ssemwanga, a dealer in curtains and blinders, says rollers can be of single slats or double depending on how much light one needs inside the house. “Roller blinders can be made in a wide range of colours, print and design. Rollers with print will give the house a stylish look. However, pairing curtains and roller blinds together looks best when a single colour is chosen for one and print for the other,” Ssemwanga advises. For example, print for blinds and curtains can be with a plain colour that features the colour on the blind, but combining print on both curtains and blinds can look too overpowering in a room, especially when the space is small. 
Venetian blinds Wandeka says venetian blinds are mainly used in french windows that are narrow. These are more like louvers, they are durable and resistant to moisture making them a good choice for areas like the kitchen and bathrooms. “Still they can be applied anywhere in the house. However, when opting for this type of blind, look out for the gauge number, the thicker the gauge, the more beautiful and organised they appear.” Venetians are also made in different plain colours, such as gray, orange, and green. These do not require painting and can easily be wiped clean. 
Why combine with curtainsAccording Doreen Azaninka, an interior designer with Azan Interiors, curtains and blinds change the perception of the different window sizes. A standard window size may appear to be larger with long curtains and blinds paired well together as the ceiling may also appear much taller than it really is helping to draw beauty in the house.For example, install a few inches below the ceiling to change the height perception. Then place the curtain rod at the same level as the blinds beyond the window. 
“The combination of curtains and blinds adds a stronger style statement in the house and the accessories you choose should go along with the curtains and blinds,” Azanika remarks.It is important to consider the effect one wants paired curtains and blinds to have.“Knowing what colours and patterns work best together is crucial when mixing curtains and blinds where possible seek advice from interior designers’ personal test,” Wandeka advises. 
Have different curtains Curtain and blinds dealer Ssemwanga says using the same curtains across the whole house may look a bit dull. He advises that one uses different curtains in different rooms is more attractive.He says matching curtain rods with the curtains is also important. For example, high-shine rods, such as bright silver or gold can tend to look too much on curtains and blinds. 
To avoid this, opt for rods with a dull colour to keep with the overall look of both styles of window handling. Windows can make or break a room’s beauty therefore they should not be ignored when planning décor of a house. 
Costs Ivan Wandeke of payless interior designers in Kiyembe, says blinds are sold in square meters depending on the material one needs.Venetian blindsThese range from shs140, 000 to 180,000.Rollers A single one is sold at Shs135, 000 to 150,000 and double ranges between shs145, 000 to 160,000Wood blindsThe cost ranges from Shs150, 000 to 180,000.Materials used in blinds