Wednesday April 18 2018 CBA bankrolls Captain’s Prize Time for more. (L-R) CBA’s Anthony Ndegwa, Motor Center’s General Manager Aitham Sultan, UGC’s Arthur Turakira, CBA’s Executive Officer Mahugu, Retail Manager Peter Kabba and professional Akope at the launch. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary Previously the hole-in-one competition has been at No.11 but with no one claiming it on the par-72 Kitante course in recent times, the organisers are opening up more luck for the golfers by staking it on the ‘less challenging’ No.9. Advertisement By INNOCENT NDAWULA & DARREN ALLAN KYEYUNE 
KAMPALA. Tournaments don’t come thick and fast as the Uganda Professional Golfers Association (UPGA) captain Deo Akope would have loved.Akope and his men, including Flavia Namakula, are starved of action that many a time they end up making ends meet on evening ‘bet’ games and challenges with amateur golfers. 
But such a living is not sustainable. And after breaking their competition duck in months with participation at the Singleton Challenge Round of 16 last weekend in Entebbe, the professionals were left with a glee on their faces after Commercial Bank of Africa (CBA) unveiled a Shs70m package for this weekend’s Captain’s Prize tournament with Shs10m as their cash-pot. 
“We are always delighted to compete in these tournaments. We shall be 25 in the field but the money cut will be for the top 10,” said Akope at the annual tournament’s launch at Uganda Golf Club (UGC) yesterday.The professionals will not be the only twist at this year’s edition under the captaincy of Joseph Bagabo (inset) with Motor Center East Africa putting at stake a brand new KIA Sorento for whoever sinks a hole-in-one on No.9. 
Opening up luck Previously the hole-in-one competition has been at No.11 but with no one claiming it on the par-72 Kitante course in recent times, the organisers are opening up more luck for the golfers by staking it on the ‘less challenging’ No.9. “We have been in Uganda for five years and always partnered Motor Center for many projects. Hopefully we will partner with them for many sporting events,” said Joseph Mahugu, CBA’s Acting Executive Officer.At least 200 players are expected to take the field with prizes for the top performers in the men’s Group A, B and C as well as ladies Group A and B. The side bets are also catered for and there will be a special Guest category. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com