Kawempe storm playoffs, Gafford win In Summary Hasifa Nassuna stood out to be counted with an all important solitary goal as they Uganda Christian University (UCU) Lady Cardinals (UCU) beat Uganda Martyrs High School (UMHS) 1-0 in Mukono. Advertisement By MAKHTUM MUZIRANSA 
KAMPALA. If the words of Olila coach Saddam Pande are anything to go by, then three-time champions Kawempe Muslim are still the team to avoid in the playoffs of the Fufa Women Elite League.“We want to top our group and we need just three points to do that,” Pande said after their opponents Wakiso Hills failed to turn up in Soroti on Saturday. Olila were awarded three points and three goals that saw them maintain top spot in Elizabeth Group.After a 2-0 win over the continuously underwhelming Ajax Queens (18 points), thanks to Asia Nakibuukaa’s goals, Kawempe – on 26 points in 10 games – are assured of topping Victoria Group. 
Coach Ayub Khalifan’s Kawempe are alongside Olila, still the unbeaten sides in the league and though the latter lost Fazirah Ikwaput and Rita Nabbosa to Indian football outfit Gokulam Kerala, the sides will hope to avoid each other. “We played in wet and slippery conditions but overall we did well. However, if we must play better in the playoffs, our midfield has got to be more commanding,” Khalifan said. “We will continue to work on that and hope that in the playoffs, we can handle our opponents from the other groups just as we have done in the past three seasons.” 
Destiny out of hands Ajax’s loss means their destiny is no longer in their hands with just one game left and they must hope Gafford, who beat She Corporate 2-0 on Saturday in Kanyanya to move to 17 points, drop points in their last two games. Elsewhere, Hasifa Nassuna stood out to be counted with an all important solitary goal as they Uganda Christian University (UCU) Lady Cardinals (UCU) beat Uganda Martyrs High School (UMHS) 1-0 in Mukono.UCU now lie second with 23 points, Kampala Queens third with 22 while UMHS have 21 on the Elizabeth Group log with just one game left.With Olila likely to top Elizabeth, UCU’s meeting with Kampala Queens at Villa Park could be a winner-takes- it-all affair with a second playoff spot at stake. 
mmuziransa@ug.nationmedia.com