Run-in tightens after Vipers beat Villa Heroes. Express forwards Zimula and Birungi (R) celebrate. PHOTO BY E. CHICCO In Summary Vipers hotshot Daniel Sserunkuma’s first-half goal in Masaka ended Villa’s unbeaten home record this season as the visitors completed a double over the Jogoos. With the home unbeaten run fading away, Villa started the second half vigorously after replacing Lwesibawa with Yubu Bogere and Abel Eturudde with Mahad Yaya Kakooza but the visitors held on. Advertisement By ANDREW MWANGUHYA, DENIS BBOSA & ELVIS SENONO 
KAMPALA/MASAKA/ARUA. Vipers were the day’s biggest beneficiaries among the title contenders as they stung table leaders SC Villa 1-0 and KCCA faltered 1-1 at Onduparaka last evening. The Venoms victory saw them dislodge KCCA from second place as Vipers moved to 46 points, one better than the reigning league champions and three fewer than Villa with six and seven matches to go. 
Unbeaten no more Vipers hotshot Daniel Sserunkuma’s first-half goal in Masaka ended Villa’s unbeaten home record this season as the visitors completed a double over the Jogoos. In Arua, home boy Muhammad Shaban, whose controversial transfer to KCCA left a bitter taste in Onduparaka’s mouth, struck for the visitors on six minutes but the hosts struck a sharp dagger towards the end of the match as Viane Sekajugo grabbed the equaliser. 
Survival hopesThe other end of the table, Express and Proline gave their survival hopes a chance as they saw off UPDF and Police 2-0 and 3-1 respectively. Michael Birungi and Jalilu Zimula first half goals at Wankulukuku lifted Express two places out of relegation to 12th on 25 points, bettering UPDF on goal difference. A brace from Daniel Isiagi and screamer by Gift Ali moved Proline to third from bottom on 23 points, two behind UPDF - just above them. Ben Ocen netted for Police. 
Packed to the raftersBack in Masaka, thousands of Villa fans filled the Recreation Ground to the rafters as their team sought to maintain a five-point lead and the home unbeaten record. The game started with tempers flaring from both sides, instantly putting centre referee Mashood Ssali to the test, which he looks to have passed. 
Vipers showed early intent with the front three of scorer Sserunkuma, Milton Karisa and Erisa ssekisambu troubling the Villa backline of Musa Mukasa, Henry Katongole, John Adriko and Bernard Muwanga.They got the breakthrough on 30 minutes when Sserunkuma chested down a searching ball to dummy Villa bodies and ferociously fire Vipers infront for his 11th goal of the season. Villa threatened on three occassions but Alex Benzema Kitata, Martin Kizza and Godfrey Lwesibawa should be faulted for failing to capitalise on the chances. 
With the home unbeaten run fading away, Villa started the second half vigorously after replacing Lwesibawa with Yubu Bogere and Abel Eturudde with Mahad Yaya Kakooza but the visitors held on. “I’m so proud of the team,” said Vipers coach Miguel da Costa, “It is a very important win, we came knowing Masaka wasn’t going to be easy. “The championship is still open, we are looking to fighting until the last game.” Villa assistant coach Paul Mukatabala blamed the defeat on wastefulness in a game the hosts could have scored three or more had they been clinical. “Our strikers have been wasteful and that isn’t for today only but entire season, hopefully we bounce back early.” 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com