Wednesday April 18 2018 Museveni gives Shs500m to Archbishop Lwanga’s Sacco Welcomed. President Museveni is accompanied by Kampala Archbishop Cyprian Kizito Lwanga as he arrives for the Wekembe annual general assembly at Hotel Africana in Kampala yesterday. PHOTO BY RACHEL MABALA In Summary Archbishop Lwanga appreciated the President’s donation to the Sacco and promised to provide accountability after using the money to lend to members for development projects. The President has for the past few weeks been engaged in back-to-back meetings with Archbishop Lwanga to ease tensions after the latter accused State operatives of spying on him with a view to destabilising the church. Advertisement By EMMANUEL AINEBYOONA 
Kampala. President Museveni has donated Shs500m to Wekembe, a savings and credit cooperative organisation (Sacco), founded by Kampala Archbishop Cyprian Kizito Lwanga.“Together with the Archbishop Lwanga, we are going to sit and see how to help the members but today after witnessing the good work, in July, I am going to put Shs500m in your Sacco,” Mr Museveni said, adding that the money will be available in the Financial Year 2018/2019. 
The President, who was the chief guest at the Sacco’s annual general assembly at Hotel Africana in Kampala, asked Archbishop Lwanga together with other leaders under the Inter Religious Council of Uganda to return and visit his farming projects that they missed during their last week’s visit to Rwakitura, Kiruhura District. 
Archbishop Lwanga appreciated the President’s donation to the Sacco and promised to provide accountability after using the money to lend to members for development projects. The Sacco managing director, Ms Victoria Lukwago, said it has benefitted more than 2,000 households, with six of every 10 members being women in eight districts of Butambala, Kampala, Luweero, Mpigi, Mukono, Nakaseke, Buikwe and Wakiso. The archbishop asked Mr Museveni to warn media houses against writing “lies” about him. 
“Your excellency, I would like to ask you to add your voice and ask the media to stop telling lies,” he said.The President, in response said: “The newspapers are a nuisance, especially [Daily] Monitor and sometimes Red Pepper. It true they are doing everything possible to cause confusion in the society,” he said. “Some time ago, His Grace was explaining something and he explained it very well. He said spies are good but he said they should be genuine spies not liars and he came and explained to me…. But the newspapers distorted it.” 
eainebyoona@ug.nationmedia.com