Wednesday April 18 2018 AMISOM asks for more police officers in Somalia Mr Martin Ernest Abilu, the AMISON Police Coordinating Officer of Jubbaland State in Somalia addresses police officers from Sierra Leone on arrival at Kisimayo Airport on Tuesday Advertisement By Moses Kyeyune 
KISMAYO - The African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) has asked partners states to contribute more police officers to expand its operations in the war-torn country. The call was made on Tuesday by Ms Christine Alalo, the acting AMISOM police commissioner while receiving 145 police officers from Sierra Leone. The deployment of the force from Sierra Leone brings to 160 the number of police officers from Sierra Leone. “We expect other police contributing countries to do the same because we are expanding our operations. We are moving away from Mogadishu,” Ms Alalo said. Apart from Sierra Leone, other police contributing countries in Somalia are; Uganda, Kenya, Nigeria, Zambia and Ghana. Early this month, over 500 Ugandan Police Officers sat for interviews that would see successful ones join police operations in Somalia. Ms Alalo said since police operations will be extended to other federal states and districts, it is inevitable to increase the number of police units. Between 2015 and 2016, AMISOM trained 600 Somali officers in Jubbaland, but Ms Alalo said that number has to be reinforced. Meanwhile, the AMISOM Assistant Inspector General of Police, Mustafa Solomon Kambeh, said the police officers would be deployed in Jubbaland and Kismayo. Mr Kambeh doubles as the Contingent Commander of the Sierra Leonean FPU in Mogadishu urged the forces to stick to the AMISOM mandate of pacifying Somalia and its regional states. The Formed Police Unit is charged with public order management, protection of facilities and support to police operations that require a concerted response. The United Nations Security Council Resolution adopted in 2017 approved an increase to a maximum of 1,040 police officers serving under the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) AMISOM is committed to redoubling its efforts to train and recruit more police officers during the transition period as it prepares to hand over security responsibilities to the Somali security forces as stipulated in the Security Council Resolution. mkyeyune@ug.nationmedia.com