Police abandon the poor to guard the powerful Protected. A police officer guards Arua Municipality MP Ibrahim Abiriga. PHOTOS BY ALEX ESAGALA In Summary 
Mandate. Article 212 of the Constitution of Uganda states that the functions of the Uganda Police Force shall include the following— to protect life and property; to preserve law and order; to prevent and detect crime; and to cooperate with the civilian authority and other security organs established under this Constitution and with the population generally. However, 10 per cent of the force is now assigned to guard a few privileged and rich people, write Andrew Bagala & Sheila Nduhukire . Advertisement By Andrew Bagala & Sheila Nduhukire 
At midnight on January 1, 2018, Kizza Kayinga, 38, went to a shop to buy a soft drink to celebrate the New Year at Kisojjo Trading Centre, Kibinge Sub-county in Bukomansimbi District.Kayinga handed over the money to the shopkeeper. “As I stood at the shop’s veranda waiting for the shopkeeper to deliver my bottle, I heard commotion and I turned around to see what was happening, I was hit in the face. It is the last incident I recall that day,” Kayinga says. 
He says he woke up when he was in bed and he had been put on drip.“I was told that I was in Masaka Referral Hospital,” Kayinga says. Kayinga was one of the survivors of a raid in two villages of Kisojjo and Kisaka in Kibinge Sub-county, Bukomansimbi District, in which five people were killed by men armed with rudimentary weapons. Kisojjo residents say it took more than six hours for the area police to arrive at the scene. The nearest police station in the area was 15 kilometres away at Misanvu Trading Centre.The insecurity at Kisojjo Village is not different from many parts of the country. 
WATCH: NTV PANORAMA: Police manpower diverted to protect those with money 
Criminals taking advantage The criminals are taking advantage of the shortage of police manpower in many parts of the country to carry out crimes. The entire Kibinge Sub-county had more than six police officers to provide security to a population that is shooting above 15,000 people.Greater Masaka Deputy Police spokesman, Superintendent Lameck Kigozi, says the police-civilian ratios in the region are still wanting. “The numbers on ground are still appalling. You find a police post will only two police officers. The officers are in fatigued because nobody who relieves the other. We have received guidance from police management to close these police posts and concentrate at the sub-county,” Mr Kigozi says. 
Guarded. Police officers protect government officials at the High Court last year. 
The Police Council ordered every sub-county to be elevated to police station. Each police station is supposed to have at least 20 police officers, but major have not more than five police officers. Despite the razor-thin police strength of 43,000 officers in the country and high crime rates, the government is concentrating on giving security and protecting the privileged and rich at the expense of the poor.The surging numbers of police officers in units that protect the rich and privileged is one of the pointers to the imbalance between the security given to the haves and have-not. 
Special units In just seven years, the strength of the Very Important Person Protection Unit (VIPPU) has grown from 1,746 officers to 3,500-4,500. The VIPPU is supposed to protect people entitled by law to close police protection such as the Speaker of Parliament, ministers, diplomats, judges, senior security officers and top managers of government agencies. Another police unit whose numbers are increasing is the Presidential Protection Group (PPG) that protects the Vice President, Prime Minister, relatives of the First Family and specific individuals close to the presidency. 
The PPG now protects people such as Ms Jennifer Musisi, the executive director for Kampala Capital City Authority, and Ms Allen Kagina, the executive director for Uganda National Roads Authority, Mr Bryan White, a city socialite, and Ms Persis Namuganza, the State Minister for Lands. The two major units make up more than 10 per cent of the entire police force strength to secure a privileged few.Police spokesman Emilian Kayima says many, who are given police guards, are entitled because of their status and the office they hold. “A minister or judge is entitled to seven police officers. One officer is his or her close bodyguard and the six secure his or her residence,” Mr Kayima says. 
The numbers of police personnel guarding each head of institutions, like Uganda Revenue Authority, Uganda National Roads Authority, Kampala Capital City Authority and Chief Justice, ranges from 15 to 30 officers.There are close to 80 judicial officers entitled to police protection and they are given a total of around 560 and 600 police officers a day to secure their lives and property. 
Disparities It is the nearly the same police strength deployed to police districts of Arua, Masaka and Hoima combined that have a total population of 1.5m people. About 10 years ago, the Commissioner General of Prisons, the Governor Bank of Uganda, the deputy Inspector General of Police, head of Kampala City Council (now KCCA), Director of Public Prosecutions, ministers and police directors, each travelled with only one close bodyguard and no escort cars. 
But since the 2010 terror attacks in Kampala City that left 78 people dead and a string of assassinations of government employees, the officials entitled to security were given more police numbers at the expense of security of the general public. Many of those officers are now driven in a convoy with two escort cars. 
In 2011, the then Kampala Metropolitan Police commander Andrew Felix Kaweesi even widened the scope by attaching officers from General Duties that are supposed to protect the general community to business people.In 2014, when Kaweesi handed over Kampala Metropolita=n Police office to Mr Haruna Isabirye, the latter found it hard to police the city and its suburbs since a significant number of police personnel had been attached business people and companies. 
The former Inspector General of Police, Gen Kale Kayihura, put the number of officers, who had been illegally deployed to guard business people and the famous in Kampala Metropolitan Police, to half the strength of that territorial command, which was then around 4,000 to 5,000 officers. Gen Kayihura ordered all those officers attached illegally to the business people and politicians to be withdrawn. The privileged crave for police services didn’t stop. 
Lately, police are providing similar services to a section of people, who are not entitled to them, such as Members of Parliament, a section group of political party leaders, business people, religious leaders, artistes and relatives of high profile people in the country. Mr Kayima says people in this category write to Inspector General Police detailing reasons why they should be given police bodyguards.“When the IGP is satisfied with the reasons given, he gives directives to give that any person police guards. However, they must pay government revenue. A third of it goes into Police Welfare Fund and the remainder into the Consolidated Fund,” he says. 
Payments The recipient pays Shs24,000 for each officer per day. For escort duties that doesn’t go beyond eight hours, the recipient pays Shs12,000.Mr Kayima declined to reveal the total revenue the police getting from special guarding. Given the high revenues attached to getting legal police guarding, many recipients often choose to talk to lower police commanders for provide security illegally.The local police commanders assign officers that are meant to protect the general public to guard private businesses or residences. Two recent incidents in which four police officers were killed have exposed how wide the practices is done. 
In February 2018, two police constables; Ambrose Otim and Vincent Habiyaremye, were shot dead by unidentified criminals and their guns robbed at Kizza Zone, Kawempe Division in Kampala City at night.Police investigations revealed that their supervisor had deployed them to guard a private construction site without going through the lawful procedure. In another incident in September 2017, two police officers, who were providing illegal guarding for a confectionary van that was collecting money from clients, were shot dead and their guns taken by an unidentified thugs at Kalerwe, Kawempe Division. 
The area police commander had deployed the officers to the van for more than a year and the confectionary company was paying money directly to him and he would share it with his subordinates. Mr Bryan White, a socialite, whose police bodyguard allegedly shot and injured a person last year, said he was given a guard by Kampala Metropolitan Police South commander and Kabalagala Police Station commander after telling them the threats on his life, but they later disowned him when there was a shooting incident. 
Pomp. Police convoy leads one of the powerful people from Entebbe International Airport last year. 
“Later, I wrote to the IGP and sought a police guard and I was given legally,” he says. 
He is now guarded by officers from PPG and VPPU. The newest method by the rich and well-connected people are using to get more police officers ratios at the disadvantage of the community is constructing their own police stations or posts, motorcycles and accommodation in their localities.Areas where the rich reside like Naguru, Kololo, Muyenga, Ntinda, Bbunga, along Entebbe and Naalya, which are sparsely populated, have more police posts and personnel than areas with high population and crime rates. But to ordinary people like Kayinga who stay in the rural areas, the security situation will remain tough. Four months after attack, an unidentified criminals dropped letters threatening to attack Kisojjo Village again. 
Eperts speak out 
Delegating duties. Mr Yasin Ssekamatte, a security expert and executive director for Jet-Tech Security Uganda Limited, says the current police numbers would have policed a bigger area if guarding and escort services of private persons were left to the private security organisations as it is the case in many developed countries. “It is police that has allowed this (abuse) to happen. If they refuse deploying officers to whoever comes to them, then they would come to us. Many get police guards from friends and associates. The uniform of VIPPU is known but you see guards from different units providing those services,” Mr Ssekamatte says.No capability. Mr Ssekamatte says there isn’t lack of capability in the private security organisations to provide such services, but many Ugandans, including the rich, prefer getting police officers to save money. 
“Many Ugandans will not want to pay US$200 (about Shs720,000) a month for private guards. They want police officers who they will give half of that,” he says.Numbers. The strength of private security guards in the country has reached 50,000 minus those deployed in Middle East countries. He says many of the guards in Uganda are more trained in VIP security than many police officers since they were trained by some of the top notch security experts while they were executing similar duties in countries such as Iraq and Afghanistan. advertisement