DPP forwards Sheikh Kamoga’s file to police for verification Sheikh Kamoga after being sentenced to life imprisonment. Photo by Abubaker Lubowa In Summary In August last year, Sheikh Kamoga, the former leader of the Muslim Tabliq Sect was sentenced to life imprisonment after he was convicted on the offence of terrorism in connection with killing of Muslim clerics. Advertisement By Juliet Kigongo 
KAMPALA. The Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) has forwarded to police the file of jailed Tabliq leader, Amir Umar Mohammed Yunus Kamoga in a case in which he petitioned Court of Appeal to release him on bail.Sheikh Kamoga who was brought to court amid tight security is seeking to be released on bail, pending appeal hearing, citing advanced age and ill-health. 
Court heard on Wednesday that the file was forwarded to police so as to verify some information that Sheikh Kamoga had included in his affidavit for bail.“There is some information in the application and affidavit which include the sureties that we want police to verify before we respond to the applicant’s (Sheikh Kamoga) bail application,” the state prosecutor Ms Lillian Omara told court. 
READ: Sheikh Kamoga appeals life imprisonment sentence 
“We also want to verify on whether the Court of Appeal has prepared the proceedings and set the hearing date for the appeal in which the applicant is challenging his sentence of life imprisonment,” she added before asking for an adjournment. As a result, Court of Appeal Justice Christopher Madrama adjourned the court proceedings to May 2 to enable the prosecutors prepare their reply. 
In the application filed before the Court of Appeal, Sheikh Kamoga, 60, states that he is ready to fulfill all the conditions set forth by the court of Appeal on granting him bail because he is of good character as well as a law abiding citizen.“…I am advised by my lawyers that there is a possibility of substantial delay in the determination of my appeal before this Honourable Court as there are a series of cases pending and those that are already fixed for the next criminal session,” states Sheikh Kamoga in the affidavit.Through his lawyers, the Muslim Cleric claims that it is in interest of justice that bail be granted to him because his appeal has a high possibility of success since no murder was ever proved against him at the trial court. 
In August last year, Sheikh Kamoga, the former leader of the Muslim Tabliq Sect was sentenced to life imprisonment after he was convicted on the offence of terrorism in connection with killing of Muslim clerics. The International Crimes Division (ICD) Court jailed Sheikh Kamoga jointly with five other Sheikhs; Siraje Kawooya, Murta Mudde Bukenya, Fahad Kalungi, Yusuf Kakande alias Abudalla and Abdul Salam Sekayanja. 
jkigongo@ug.nationmedia.com