Wednesday April 18 2018 Nigeria national confesses to trafficking cocaine Police records indicate that on September 11 the convict was intercepted at Entebbe International Airport aboard Ethiopia airways. PHOTO BY BETTY NDAGIRE In Summary In 2014, Daily Monitor reported that narcotic drugs weighing 80 kilograms worth several millions of shillings were found missing from police stores. An examination at the central government Analytical Laboratory showed unknown officers has used cassava flour to replace the impounded drugs. Advertisement By BETTY NDAGIRE 
KAMPALA- A Nigeria national has pleaded guilty to trafficking in narcotic drugs. 
The accused Augustine Anwuasoanya, 56, alias Keeten Kojo appeared in a session presided by Buganda Road Court chief magistrate, James Ereemye. 
Mr Ereemye read to the accused two counts which are; unlawful possession of narcotic drugs and trafficking in narcotic drugs. 
In his plea, Anwuasoanya, told court that: “…your worship the allegations are correct”. This prompted court to convict him as charged. 
While submitting to cause a custodial sentence to the convict, the state led by Mr Jonathan Muwaganya, told court that the offences the convict committed are rampant and a threat to people’s lives. 
Mr Muwaganya argued that in absence of a certificate of the market value of such drugs, court cannot sentence a person to a fine. So in the convict’s case, a custodial sentence is the only available option. 
The presiding magistrate Ereemye adjourned the matter to May 8 for sentencing.Police records indicate that on September 11 the convict was intercepted at Entebbe International Airport aboard Ethiopia airways. 
They reveal that he was traveling to Brazil via Togo, Ethiopia with Entebbe as trial destination and he had entered Uganda using a fake Ghana passport. 
That is when he was intercepted by intelligence on ground that he had ingested some narcotic drugs. The convict was arrested and subjected to observation by aviation police until evening when he passed drug pellets. 
It is further stated that all the pellets tested positive for cocaine at the Government Analytical Laboratory (GAL). 
Prosecution contend that Anwuasoanya, a holder of Nigeria passport No. 07269663 on between September 11 and 17 at Entebbe International Airport in Wakiso District without lawful excuse, had in his possession narcotic drugs (2.088 kilograms cocaine), a prohibited drug under the Narcotic Drug and psychotropic Substance Control Act of 2016. 
On the count of trafficking in narcotics, was stated that still on the same dates and place, the convict without lawful excuse imported to Uganda narcotic drugs. 
Utility In 2014, Daily Monitor reported that narcotic drugs weighing 80 kilograms worth several millions of shillings were found missing from police stores. An examination at the central government Analytical Laboratory showed unknown officers has used cassava flour to replace the impounded drugs. 
bndagire@ug.nationmedia.com