From death row to Law graduates: Meet the 03 Luzira inmates who graduated with Law degrees   
The Uganda Prison Service , in partnership with African Prisons Project (APP), will on Thursday host a Graduation Thanksgiving Service , celebrating the graduation of 3 gifted APP students passing their University of London Undergraduate Law Degrees (LLB) by correspondence. 
The 3 LLB graduates being recognized and celebrating are; Susan Kigula, Pascal Kakuru and Moses Ekwam. The day of celebrations will bring together some of the world’s most influential judicial changemakers, to share best practice, experience and their personal knowledge on navigating a progressively changing judicial landscape. Although they were convicted and jailed for disobeying the law, three Luzira inmates were not deterred from pursuing a career in the same field. - Advertisement - 
The three inmates who were exonerated on appeal, were admitted to the University of London International after completing A-Level from Luzira inmates Secondary School. The university, in partnership with a charity organisation, African Prisons Project, offered the course to create positive transformation. 
MEET THE GRADUATES: Moses Ekwam Lawyer, Law Graduate Moses Ekwam was a private in the Ugandan Army from Eastern Uganda who was sentenced to a term of 5-years at Luzira Prison (Boma). Whilst there, he completed his University of London Diploma in the Common Law and then commenced his LLB Degree. Four years and 11 months into his sentence Moses’ conviction was overturned and he was released. He was re-admitted into the army and posted to the Oliver Tambo School of leadership whilst he continued his legal studies. 
He achieved his LLB Degree and was promoted to the rank of 2nd Lieutenant and transferred to the army’s legal services wing where he now serves as a military prosecutor. Susan Kigula, APP ambassador Death Penalty Fighter, Law Graduate Susan Kigula entered Luzira Women’s Prison at the age of 21, in 2000. After participating in African Prison Project’s (APP) Leadership Programme she took the opportunity to study Law, via the University of London (UoL) International Programme. 
Susan was the first female inmate to study and graduate with a Diploma in Common Law, followed by a Law Degree (LLB). In 2009 she led a death penalty petition, in the Ugandan Constitutional Court, with 417 other death row inmates, challenging mandatory death sentences, and as a result, mandatory death sentences were abolished in Uganda. 
Pascal Kakuru Inmate, Law Graduate Pascal Kakuru remains in Luzira Upper Prison – Uganda’s only maximum security facility – and is due for release in 2019. Pascal’s commitment and hard work identified him as an ideal candidate for the University of London’s (UoL) International Programme. 
He became the African Prison Project’s (APP) first student to receive a Law Degree from UoL in September 2017. Pascal now supports others as a Graduate Assistant to the prison-based APP Law Degree Tutors as well as becoming Editor of the prison Law Journal.