Monitor exposes more errant drivers #StayInYourLane In Summary 
Send images and short text detailing the offence, time and place to editorial@ug.nationmedia.com or WhatsApp …0776769334…. Advertisement 
Campaign. The Nation Media Group – Uganda has started a public road user campaign in which it will publish photographs and videos of errant road users as a way of curbing indiscipline on the roads. The campaign dubbed “Stay in Your Lane” will see photographs and videos of errant road users published in Daily Monitor newspaper, NTV and all their online platforms. Registration numbers (and names of errant motorists or registered owner) will be mentioned on KFM and Dembe FM – location of offence and type of misdemeanour. 
Public call. Send images and short text detailing the offence, time and place to editorial@ug.nationmedia.com or WhatsApp …0776769334…. 
From our readers. By submitting any image, you give authority to Monitor Publications Ltd and Africa Broadcasting (U) Ltd to use it in anyway and you waive all claims whatsoever that may arise from such use. 
Unlawful. A driver of vehicle, registration number NPN 12377, was pictured driving over a road island on Yusuf Lule Road in Kampala last Tuesday at 5:35pm. PHOTO BY ABUBAKER LUBOWA 
Pavement parking. A double cabin pickup, registration number UAL 264F, parked on a pedestrian walkway in Kibuli, Kampala, on March 16 at 2:14pm. PHOTO BY MICHAEL KAKUMIRIZI 
Unlawful. A driver of vehicle, registration number NPN 12377, was pictured driving over a road island on Yusuf Lule Road in Kampala last Tuesday at 5:35pm. PHOTO BY ABUBAKER LUBOWA 
These three car were seen coming from Kafu Road to join Yusuf Lule Road. There's no entry sign there but they ignored it. COURTESY PHOTO 
A Police car UP 4772 driving on the wrong lane in Ntinda on Wednesday morning. COURTESY PHOTO 
Truck registration number UAW 164B is driving on the wrong side of the road forcing other motorists from the opposite side onto the wrong lane. COURTESY PHOTO 
This truck registration number UAD 241G was parked and offloading crates of soda in the road in Mutungo-Bina road on March 20, 2018 at about 4:45pm. COURTESY PHOTO 
Car registration number 00 UG002 parked in a driveway lane at a junction along Kampala road as you head to Parliament avenue. COURTESY PHOTO 
A driver of a saloon car, Reg. No. UAU 964A created a double lane, blocking off incoming traffic on Kisalosalo Road, near Kampala International School thereby worsening the traffic gridlock. Courtesy photo advertisement