Boda Boda man who knocked dead Cheeye arrested March 21,   
Police in Kampala on Wednesday arrested the hit and run motocyclist on suspicion of murdering Teddy Seezi Cheeye at Nakawa recently. The suspect identified as Roger Kirya 32 years was arrested after a serious manhunt, was found hiding in Mbuya Nakawa Division. Kampala Metropolitan Police spokesman, Mr Luke Owoyesigire, said Kirya is detained at Jinja Road Police Station over reckless driving causing death. “He has recorded a statement and has admitted committing the crime. We shall take him to court soon after the Resident State Attorney has sanctioned the charge,” Mr Owoyesigire said. Kirya told police that on the fateful day, he was riding from Kampala to Spear Motors junction where he operates from. 
“When the traffic lights signalled green, I rode, but I didn’t see anyone crossing until he had rammed into my motorcycle and we all fell down. I was helped by people I didn’t know to get off the road,” Kirya said. Thereafter, he said, those who helped him led him to his motorcycle and told him to flee. “I had even failed to start my motorcycle, but they kick-started it and pushed me onto the motorcycle and said leave right away. I don’t know that I had knocked someone dead,” he said - Advertisement - 
According to his daughter, Cheeye Veteran journalist and publisher of Uganda Confidential, a news magazine, was knocked by a boda boda cyclist ridding UEH 773R as he was taking a walk in Nakawa. He is being detained at Jinja Road Police Station and has been charged on TAR 78/2018 pending court. 
Cheeye was a former head of economic monitoring in the Internal Security Organisation. Cheeye returned from Luzira prison last year on March 3 after serving a 10-year sentence following his conviction on corruption charges on April 8, 2009. He was jailed on April 8, 2009 when he was convicted of embezzlement of Global Fund money amounting to Shs120 million. 
Cheeye revealed to The Observer that he had become a born again Christian after he was introduced to the Bible by fellow prisoners, some of who he helped send there in the first place. Cheeye rose to fame as Editor-in-Chief of the Uganda Confidential, a weekly newsletter known for its investigation into crime and fraud by government officials. - Advertisement -