March 21, 2018 Missing Kyambogo student-Nabuti 
Despite the recent changes in the security hierarchy in the in country, there are still cases of murders and disappearances in the city. Following the numerous kidnaps and murders of especially women, attacks of homes in the great Masaka region which started last year, President Museveni recently made changes in security, dropping the Security Minister Lt. Gen. Henry Tumukunde and Inspector General of Police, Gen. Kale Kayihura. This was prompted by the kidnap and murder of Susan Magara who was later to be murdered by her captors before dumping her dead body on Entebbe road. After the changes, President Museveni stated that there had been lapses in the old security leadership. Referring to some of the police officers as bean weevils, the Museveni argued the new leadership work together to improve the wanting security situation especially in the city and its suburbs. However this has not happened as disappearance of women in Kampala is still taking place. The latest is the sad news of the disappearance of a Kyambogo University student which took place this week. The girl who has been identified by relatives as Elsie Nabbuti has been a third year student pursuing a Bachelor’s degree in Development Studies. She went missing since Saturday the March 17, 2018. According to information from relatives and close friends to the missing Nabutti they last heard from her on Saturday. They further state that when her friends tried calling her, all her phones were off but kept getting on in intervals but still no one was picking them up,” “Nabutti has not surfaced to her home in Namboole where she stays with the cousin since Saturday and this has got her whole family worried,” says a friend who spoke on condition of anonymity. The family has made a report at police station has mounted a search for this student. Both police and family are requesting anyone who may have useful information leading to Nabutti’s whereabouts should report to the nearest police station or The missing student is the second in just week after another Makerere University Business School student Sheila Igoe went missing last week on Wednesday and was found yesterday Tuesday dead in the city mortuary at Mulago. This has left a lot in the minds of Ugandan whether the security situation in the country is improve or will continue deteriorating. SHARE