Balustrades are more than just an aesthetic for your home Balustrades help minimise falls on stairs. PHOTO BY RACHEL MABALA In Summary Stairs and balcony falls are common in homes. A balustrade might just be the extra touch you need to ensure beauty and safety. Another determining factor in the choice of balustrades is the overall budget. Some types are more costly than others. For example, wood is not only expensive but comes with extra costs of treatment and maintenance. The cheaper options would be steel or concrete as long as they are made to fit in with the rest of the décor. Advertisement By Carolyne B. Atangaza 
A few days ago, I had a very frightening experience while climbing stairs in one of the office complexes in Kampala. Not only are the stairs stiff but they also have no handrails of any sort. So, in addition to running out of breath, I was in mortal fear of toppling off. Midway, I was ready to retreat but I realised I needed to first catch my breath before descending the two flights of stairs again. 
I fought the temptation to close my eyes which would be a sure way of falling off and stoically climbed all the way to the third floor where my appointment was. That is when I realised how important balustrades and rails are. Because most buildings and storied homes have considerately incorporated this important element in their design, it is easy for them to go unnoticed. Balustrades are commonly known as rails and they are often found lining many staircases and terraces. 
According to Dolores Mukisa Makholo, an architectural designer, the balustrade does more than just add a decorative aspect to a building. “Balustrades are needed for protection especially on stairs and balconies. No matter how careful one is, there is always a risk of falling off most especially if there are children or the elderly,” Makholo says. They can also be used to partition off an area for the purposes of privacy, such as around the pool area or pergolas. 
Choosing the right balustrades does not come easy as there are a lot of styles and designs on the market to choose from. Putting all other considerations aside, it is important that the balustrades you choose will not just fit your staircase but will also complement your home’s architectural design. 
Therefore, the choice is determined by the design and size of the house. If you have a smaller home, consider choosing a balustrade that is proportional to your house and only where there is an obvious and practical need. 
“Using balustrades in the interior of a single storied house is nothing but overkill. The only realistic places where balustrades are needed in such houses are the balcony and stairs if there are any,” Makholo observes. 
Simon Peter Kazibwe, an architect, emphasises that balustrades should complement the house’s design. Therefore, the choice one makes should match the style of the house. “If your design is a contemporary one, choose balustrades that are modern. if it is classic, choose vintage balustrades to avoid a clash in styles,” Kazibwe advises. Balustrades and handrails are made from many different materials including wood, glass, concrete and steel. A wooden balustrade is perfect for a classically designed house although it can also work in a modern home. Modern homes usually do well with glass and steel balustrades. 
When picking balustrades, it is important to consider the effect of natural elements on the material of your choice. Where are you going to place your balustrades and handrails? Some materials do not work well in certain environments. for instance a wooden balustrades close to a pool is not a good idea as water has a degrading effect on wood. As a general rule, balustrades for outdoor purposes should be weather resistant therefore, for outside use, choose materials such as steel and glass and for indoor use, wood is a preferable material. 
Another determining factor in the choice of balustrades is the overall budget. Some types are more costly than others. For example, wood is not only expensive but comes with extra costs of treatment and maintenance. The cheaper options would be steel or concrete as long as they are made to fit in with the rest of the décor. Measurements According to Pius Louis Chelimo, a structural engineer, the basic purpose of balustrades is to act as barriers and for them to serve this purpose, they must comply with the proper measurements. “The proper height should be 42 inches plus or minus 3 inches from the walking surface which is not always the same as the floor or roof height. 
They should also be able to withstand a force of 200kgs in any direction,” says Chelimo. It is advisable to space the balusters between 3 inches or 75mm apart. “Baluster spacing should be such that it is wide enough to avoid a clumsy look but narrow enough to avoid children heads being stuck between,” the engineer adds. 
Cost The cost varies from company to company and from material to material. For instance, wooden balustrades cost an average of Shs700,000 per meter while wrought iron ones cost Shs 1.4m. 
Proper care Often the harsh environment, temperature fluctuation, dust and external exposure can cause balustrading material to deteriorate and this happens at different rates depending on the material used for example, glass, stainless steel and timber. 
It is recommended that when used outdoors a good wood varnish or polish is regularly applied along with seasonal water-blasting to minimise discolouring and aging.Clean steel balustrades regularly using a mild detergent in lukewarm water and rinsing off with cold water for the best results. 
Source: www.stallionstainless.com