The spacious three bedroom bungalow The artistic impression of a three bedroom house. Photo by Simon Peter Kazibwe In Summary Do you own a 100ft x100ft plot and are struggling to find a house plan for it? This unique design offers privacy and enough entertainment space in a home. Adding potted plants and flowers will also brighten the space. He recommends succulent plants such as aloe, cacti, jade and aeonium as a great addition to any container garden. “They look beautiful when they are mixed and matched. Due to their short root systems, they can grow in any container. Be sure to get special potting soil for these plants as they suit good drainage,” he says. Advertisement By Carol B Atangaza 
Building your own home is as exciting as it is challenging. Because this is usually a culmination of one’s lifelong dream, stakes tend to be higher and there are more than just funds involved. That is why it is advisable to do enough research and planning before beginning the project. If you have a fairly big plot and want to build a spacious home for your family, consider this house plan drawn by Simon Peter Kazibwe of Royal architects and Engineers. The house is estimated to cost Shs80m. 
This house is advantageous for elevated areas since it is low. If your plot is at least 100ftX100ft, then this plan is perfect for you, although it can be adjusted to fit a slightly smaller plot. 
Features The house has 10 rooms. The porch opens to the foyer that leads to the living area and all the way to the dining. The front window assembly is replicated in the dining to allow continuous flow of air making the house cool at all times. 
Two of the bedrooms are located on one side and share the general bathroom located between them to serve occupants without having to go to their respective rooms. The master bedroom is located at the extreme opposite end, which gives it an extra level of privacy. It has built-in cabinets and en-suite toilet and bathroom and a complete dressing room. The master suite also has its own private balcony that is only accessible from the bedroom. 
The most unique feature of this house plan is its generosity of entertainment space; there are two living and two dining areas; one inside and the other outside. Unlike most Ugandan plans, this one provides space for an indoor laundry area, which if not usable for its original purpose, can serve as an additional bedroom, store room or any other room purposes. The arched porch covered by a canopy of wooden planks makes this house’s main entrance imposing and opulent. 
The front verandah is also spacious as it occupies most of the projected footprint of the house and is also meant to accommodate the outdoor sitting area. You may be asking where the garage is. This house plan design does not to have an attached garage, so you are free to put the garage somewhere within your plot or can be added according to owner’s preference. 
Make use of the outdoor spacesIt is one thing to have these spaces designated on the house plan and another to make use of them. Not necessarily a new idea, few homes ever manage to actually get to use these spaces. According to Wahab Mbabazi, a décor expert from Habawood International, people just dump a few pieces of uncoordinated furniture and forget about it. 
“Yet if these spaces are well furnished, they help decongest the house and offer relaxing space with fresh air to either eat or just sit and while away the hours,” Mbabazi says. Instead of having one lounge chair, Mbabazi advises adding two smaller seats to compliment the bigger. He adds that to create an indoor feel in your outdoor space, add a rug. Look for one that is water and mold resistant to be on a safe side. 
Adding potted plants and flowers will also brighten the space. He recommends succulent plants such as aloe, cacti, jade and aeonium as a great addition to any container garden. “They look beautiful when they are mixed and matched. Due to their short root systems, they can grow in any container. Be sure to get special potting soil for these plants as they suit good drainage,” he says. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com