Thursday March 22 2018 Five renewable energy plants to be set up Mr Eric Yobo a businessman in Arua District, said yesterday that such projects not only provide power but create jobs for youth. Courtesy photo In Summary Expected capacity: The five plants will have a restored capacity to produce a combined 2.9 megawatts in the five districts of Arua, Jinja, Mbale, Mbarara and Masaka. Mr Francis Pariyo an environmentalist, welcomed the initiative adding that if waste not managed well, it emits greenhouse gasses such as carbon-oxide, which causes global warming and destruction of lives. Advertisement By TOM BRIAN ANGURINI 
Kampala. Government will build five renewable energy plants in the districts of Arua, Jinja, Mbale, Mbarara and Masaka. 
The plants are expected to increase access to energy and will operate using human waste to generate 2.9 megawatts. 
In an interview yesterday, the assistant commissioner in charge of renewable energy at the Ministry of Energy, Mr John Tumuhimbise, said government has received Shs11.8b from Global Enforcement Facility for the projects. 
“We are going to do co-financing for the projects locally where government expects to raise additional Shs52b to kick start construction in the next financial year,” he said. 
Apart from supplementing available energy, the plants, Mr Tumuhimbise said, are also expected to reduce greenhouse emissions and create employment both direct and indirect as well as increase energy security.Mr Francis Pariyo an environmentalist, welcomed the initiative adding that if waste not managed well, it emits greenhouse gasses such as carbon-oxide, which causes global warming and destruction of lives.“If you convert these greenhouse gases into electricity, you have destroyed dangers of emitting them in the atmosphere,” he said. 
Mr Eric Yobo a businessman in Arua District, said yesterday that such projects not only provide power but create jobs for youth. 
“Imagine what a parent will feel seeing his son always drunk after paying school fees. We should have more of such projects to employ youth,” he said. Mr Tumuhimbise said farmers will also benefit from products such as abundant and cheap fertilizer from residual products. 
He added that the constructions will be done in three phases and within two years after which they will encourage the private sector to come in and invest in the sector. 
Plants’ location 
Expected capacity: The five plants will have a restored capacity to produce a combined 2.9 megawatts in the five districts of Arua, Jinja, Mbale, Mbarara and Masaka. 
tangurini@ug.nationmedia.com