Thursday March 22 2018 Police, military should play different roles Uganda Army and police vehicles patrol roads in Bundibugyo District in a past operation. FILE PHOTO | NATION MEDIA GROUP. Advertisement By Rhoda N Kalema 
Last week, the media quoted the new deputy Inspector General of Police, Brig Muzeyi Sabiiti, as having said that there is nothing wrong with militarising the police force. This statement, coming at a time when former IGP Kale Kayihura, under whose tenure the Uganda Police Force became militaristic, was revealing. What can we expect from the new team leading police? This reminds me of an article I wrote in this newspaper in 2012, in which I was responding to a question NTV put to viewers during the 9pm news on February 19, 2012. That article, which I reproduce here with a few amendments, is still relevant today. In the article, I chose to comment about the puzzling situation of Uganda’s security forces, specifically addressing—with due respect—then IGP Kale Kayihura. This time, I address the current team leading police.Given the trend of events over the years, it has been clear that the Uganda Police has been acting as an enemy security force towards civilians, rather than a custodian of law and order. This made me remember a quote I read about 30 years ago from Readers’ Digest magazine while travelling on a train in Britain. The quote I wish to share with the Police Force in general and the leadership in particular, was about the national characteristics of five countries which the writer chose to define. The article talked about what signifies ‘Heaven’ and ‘Hell’ under the handling of these nationals: British, French, German, Swiss and Italian. What the author wrote: “It was ‘Hell’ to be in hands of a British cook, a Swiss lover, a French mechanic, an Italian organiser and a German police: At the same time it was ‘Heaven’ to be in the hands of a British police, a French cook, a Swiss organiser, a German mechanic and an Italian lover. But let us concentrate on the British police. The British masters bequeathed a ‘heavenly’ Police to Uganda in October 1962. During the first Uganda Government, the Uganda Police kept a ‘heavenly’ image, and perhaps that is why during Amin’s regime, when his army exercised their excesses, they referred to the Police as ‘women’, because they were really gentle. And it was little wonder that the then IGP, Erinayo Oryema, who was a true symbol of law and order, was murdered in cold blood.I, therefore, think the Uganda Police Force is greatly challenged because it has clearly and steadily changed the character of the institution that was left behind more than 50 years ago for the worse. Now to the NTV question, and Brig Sabiti’s statement about militarising the police. First, the roles of the police and of the army should, indeed, be completely separate. Their functions in the Uganda Constitution are also very different.Article 4 of the Constitution compels promotion of public awareness of the Constitution to citizens of Uganda: 4(a) to translate it into Uganda Languages (b) to teach it in all educational institutions and armed forces training institutions, and regularly transmitting programmes through the media, etc. There would be no need for patriotic clubs in schools, at such a great cost, if this Article was implemented.Now let’s see what the Constitution says about the functions of the two institutions in question. Article 209: Uganda Peoples Defence Forces: (a) To defend the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Uganda (against outside enemies) b) Corporate with civilians (c) Foster harmony, understanding between Defence Forces and civilians.Article 212: Functions of Police Force: (a) Protect life and property (b) Preserve law and order (c) Prevent & detect crime (c) Corporate with civilian and authority.Now, in spite of the functions stipulated in the Constitution, we read in the Daily Monitor of February 20, 2012 Pg 15, Kayihura backs soldiers presence in Police Force. The reason the then IGP gave Ugandans is: “to build the needed capacity to deal with riots, terrorism and insurgency.” He also recommended sniffer dogs. Such remarks are what raise the question: Are most Ugandans presumed to be or are potential rioters, terrorists and insurgents?It is not surprising that the Police Force, according to The Observer of January 26, 2012, was spending Shs500m daily on opposition demos. So just as I appealed to the then IGP, I appeal to the new police leadership that it is crucial that the UPDF and the Uganda Police be taught the whole Constitution so as to understand their prime duty towards their country men and women. We know that the ‘riot’ victims have included men and women going about their duties, school children and even babies. The brutality that we have seen frequently exercised by what is supposed to be a police force, is too shocking and traumatic. Like I stated in 2012, the ‘Heavenly’ Police Force of 1962 has turned completely into a ‘Hell’ Police Force today. I believe all Ugandans should dread but agree with the warning of one William T Gossett who said: “The Rule of Law can be wiped out in one misguided, however well-intentioned, generation.”Therefore, I beseech the new police leadership that the roles of the police and military should be kept separate for the good of our country. 
Ms Kalema is a former NRC member (1989-1996) and former CA delegate (1994-1995). rhoda.kalema@gmail.com