Former MP Kipoi transferred to Makindye Military Prison Former Bubulo West Member of Parliament, Tonny Kipoi Nsubuga Advertisement By JALIRA NAMYALO 
KAMPALA- Former Bubulo West Member of Parliament, Tonny Kipoi Nsubuga has been transfered from Luzira Prison to Makindye Military Prison pending trial over accusations of recruiting people to join armed rebels. 
The General Court Martial sitting at Makindye, chaired by Lt Gen. Andrew Gutti on Wednesday ordered the transfer of Mr Kipoi from Luzira Maximum Security Prison to the military facility citing security reasons. 
“…the accused [person] was extradited to the country, so for that reason, he is remanded to Makindye Military Prison until April 24 for hearing,” ordered Gen. Gutti at a brief court session. Mr Kipoi was driven to the army court on production warrant upon application by prosecution, two days after he was remanded to Luzira Prison. 
Kipoi who is jointly charged with five other suspects over offences relating to security, was arraigned before the army court on Monday and denied the accusations. 
The charges attract a maximum sentence of death, upon conviction.Other suspects include five UPDF soldiers; Sgt Albino Okeng, Sgt Yunus Lemeriga, L/Cpl Adams Mawa and L/Cpl Rogers Mweru formerly attached to the Armoured Brigade headquarters in Masaka District as well as Pt Saidi Dodola, formerly attached to the elite Special Forces Command. 
Mr Kipoi joins his co-accused who were earlier remanded to Makindye Military Police Prison.The former legislator who was extradited early this month from Botswana has been on warrant of arrest since 2014 when he escaped through Democratic Republic of Congo. Prosecution led by Maj. Raphael Mugisha told court that they received intelligence information that the suspect (Kipoi)’s stay in Luzira Prison was not secure. 
Earlier, prosecution asked court to set a hearing date submitting that investigations into the case were complete."…Investigations into this case are done and we pray to have a hearing date fixed. The suitable date for us is April 24 this year," Maj Mugisha said. 
Meanwhile, the suspects have asked court to direct prosecution to disclose statements and exhibits they intend to rely on during their trial to enable them prepare for their defence. 
Prosecution alleges that between November 2012 and December 2013 in diverse places in Kampala, Wakiso, Masaka, Nakasongola, Fort Portal, Jinja and Ntoroko Districts, Kipoi convened meetings to recruit soldiers with intent to prejudice the security of the defence forces. 
Earlier warrant In 2014, the army court ordered the arrest of Kipoi after his case file and his co-accused was shifted to the military court two months after the treason case was withdrawn from the civil court for lack of evidence. 
In February 2014, the Directorate of Public Prosecutions, the government’s chief prosecutor, withdrew the treason charges against the accused. 
The prosecution had alleged that Kipoi held a meeting with DR Congo rebels and UPDF soldiers in a guest house in Kabarole District in Uganda with the intention of arming them to overthrow the government of Uganda. jnamyalo@ug.nationmedia.com