Museveni fires senior Immigration officials over E-passport project March 22,   
President Museveni has ordered for the immediate suspension of two senior officers in the immigration directorate over allegations that they misused funds for the procurement of the E-passport equipment as the deadline of December 2018 nears. 
Two years ago, the six East African Community member states committed phase out their traditional passports by December 2018. Citizens with traditional but valid passports would have to surrender the old ones to get the e–passports. Kenya began to issue the new e-passport in September last year, becoming the first country in the region to do so. The e-passport — also known as the biometric passport — complies with guidelines set by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), making it admissible globally. - Advertisement - 
The president reportedly ordered the Godfrey Sasaga, the director Immigration and Commissioner, Anthony Namara to handover to the permanent secretary in the ministry of Internal Affairs, Dr Benon Mutambi Mugisha. The President’s letter interdicting the two senior officials was reportedly sent to the Internal Affairs minister on Wednesday evening. Over the last two years, the process of procuring the E-Passports has been marred by allegations of corruption, misuse of funds. Sources say the president has also directed the Criminal Investigations Directorate to investigate the two officials. 
The EAC Heads of State Summit in March 2016 directed that the issuance of e-passports be done concurrently in all member states, with a one-year phase-out of the national and regional passports. An e-passport looks like the current national passports, but contains an electronic chip that is encoded with the same information found on page two of the passport — the surname, given name, date of birth and sex. It also have a biometric identifier, digital photograph of the holder and security features to prevent unauthorised use and forgery. 
read: East African countries to start issuing EA e-Passport January 2018 
The e-passport will facilitate fast clearance of citizens at immigration offices. An automated fingerprint verification system in the database will guard against multiple passport issuances to the same person and also detect imposters. 
The e-passport comes in red, green and sky blue — the colours of the EAC flag — but with text and national emblems in gold to complete its face. The colour of the passport will depend on categories. For instance, EAC diplomats will carry the red passport, officials (service category) will have it in green while ordinary citizens will have the sky blue document.