Mutebile tells off IGG- says staff changes he made at BoU will stand   
The governor Bank of Uganda , Prof. Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile has rejected an earlier order by   Government, Irene Mulyagonja to halt the senior staff changes at the central Bank he made recently. Mutebile says the bank has powers to make staff changes without consulting any other authority. 
In a letter dated March 19, 2018, Mutebile says that Bank of Uganda is an independent institution and the IGG’s interference in the affairs of the central bank could have catastrophic economic effects. “The raison d’etre of the independence is not difficult to fathom. The purpose is to ensure that the Bank of Uganda is credible, decisive and to ensure macro-economic stability and confidence in the market. This can only be achieved if the Bank of Uganda is free from external influence, dire - Advertisement - 
On February 7, Mutebile made changes at Bank of all banks in Uganda, with the reshuffle affecting eight executive directors, 13 directors, 24 assistants/deputy directors and four staff members. 
READ: Mutebile fires Justine Bagyenda, her deputy SseKabira sent on forced leave 
Key in the changes, Mutebile fired Ms Justine Bagyenda, the former executive director for Commercial banks supervision and replacing her with Dr Tumubweine Twinemanzi. Ms Bagyenda would later refuse to hand over office saying she had been illegally fired while aggrieved employees petitioned the IGG calling for a broad inquiry into Mr Mutebile’s management style at the bank. 
The IGG responded by ordering that the changes be halted until investigations are concluded to determine whether they meet the minimum legal standard. In the letter, insists that the staff changes he made will stand and that not even the President or Speaker had ever “so brazenly” directed the IGG. “We reiterate our previous position in our letter dated March 6, 2018 regarding the validity of the appointments but we must add that the Inspectorate does not have the authority to give direction to Bank of Uganda, “Mr Mutebile wrote in the letter also copied to the President, Prime Minister and Speaker of parliament. 
In the letter, Mutebile cites legal precedents where the IGG has tried to meddle into operations of other public institutions only to be stopped by court such as the matter of the Uganda Development Bank (UDB), where Justice Musoota reversed Mulyagonja’s decision regarding staff changes there. 
Musoota ruled:” I agree with the applicants that the IGG does not have the mandate to direct the board of directors [of UDB] on how they should exercise their discretionary powers…” Mutebile says that the central bank shall safeguard its independence and ensure it maintains public confidence in its ability to guarantee a sound financial system free of external interference. - Advertisement -