Thursday March 22 2018 Eskom partners with Monitor to sponsor 20 NiE schools Learning. Kiswa Primary School pupils in Kampala discuss some questions in NIE with their teacher. FILE PHOTO In Summary According to research carried out by MPL business analyst Edward Kayondo, through analysing performance as registered by the Ministry of Education this year and drawing comparison between 2016 and 2017 PLE in schools under the Universal Primary Education around the country, there was an improvement in the performance of the pupils who benefit from reading NIE. MPL Managing Director Tony Glencross applauded the programme for its contribution in improving literacy. Advertisement By Sarah Aanyu 
KAMPALA. Power-generating company Eskom has partnered with Monitor Publications Ltd (MPL) in an effort to promote literacy in 20 primary schools in Njeru, Jinja and Buikwe districts. 
The selection for sponsorship jointly made by Eskom and the MPL NiE team include 10 schools from Buikwe and 10 from Jinja. Under the partnership, all these schools are entitled to copies of Daily Monitor newspaper every Monday – the edition that carries the NiE pullout where questions are set for primary school children to enhance their literary understanding and promote joint participation at school. 
According to the Eskom Uganda Managing Director, Ms Thozama Gangi, some disadvantaged primary schools in the eastern region have had a record of performing poorly in the Uganda National Education Board exams but this can be improved if people focus on what is important and give necessary reading materials to children. 
Ms Gangi noted that Eskom Uganda has overwhelming desire to promote education in the areas of its operation, citing the refurbishment of Njeru Primary School in Njeru Municipal Council as an example of their commitment. 
According to research carried out by MPL business analyst Edward Kayondo, through analysing performance as registered by the Ministry of Education this year and drawing comparison between 2016 and 2017 PLE in schools under the Universal Primary Education around the country, there was an improvement in the performance of the pupils who benefit from reading NIE. 
MPL Managing Director Tony Glencross applauded the programme for its contribution in improving literacy.“It is a good initiative because these aids help them memorise and get the information they need to pass their exams. Having learning aids is greatly helping to improve on their performance,” said Mr Glencross. 
About eskom 
Eskom Uganda is the largest energy generating company operating at the Nalubaale Hydroelectric Power Station in Njeru. It is responsible for operating, maintaining and repairing two government owned hydroelectric power stations: Kira and Nalubale power plant in Jinja District. 
saanyu@ug.nationmedia.com