Pastor arrested for conning needy and desperate students March 22, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Police in Fort Portal is holding a pastor of Light of Life Ministries over allegations of conning needy and desperate students. Robert Musinguzi is currently detained at Fort Portal Police for allegedly conning students promising to take them South Africa. The OC CIID Kabarole Godliver Twinomugisha, says the pastor was arrested on Wednesday after police received several complaints from students who happen to be his followers. The victims claim the pastor has been promising to take them to South Africa for studies. 
The students claim that the man of God has been soliciting up to Ugx. 3M per student promising to take them to South Africa for studies. Unfortunately they waited in vain despite making the payments to their Pastor. - Advertisement - 
The RDC Kabarole, Asiimwe Steven disclosed that the police searched Musinguzi’s church and discovered military items, fake VISA documents and among others things. Asiimwe said that as police is investigating how Musingizi acquired the military items and how long he has been defrauding his followers. Adding that when investigations are done, the Pastor will be produced in court. 
Fastest growing branch of Christianity According to the Pulitzer Center’s research on Pentecostalism, it is the fastest-growing religion in the world and one quarter of the world’s two billion Christians now belong to this Christian denomination. And nowhere is it growing faster than in sub-Saharan Africa. 
“Pentecostal Christians emphasize a direct personal experience of God and believe that the Holy Spirit acts here and now to bring inspiration, health and wealth to believers,” the Pulitzer Center reports. For many in sub-Saharan Africa who may be struggling with poverty, HIV, or unemployment, the church’s promises prove difficult to resist. 
taking action Last month in Rwanda, the government closed over 700 churches, mostly Pentecostal, on the grounds that they were unhygienic, unsafe and disturbing the public peace. Many pastors had taken to preaching through megaphones. But Phil Clark, from SOAS, University of London, believes that there were other reasons behind the closures as well.“Pentecostalism is growing exponentially there,” Clark told DW. “The church closures are much more politically influenced than the government says. It signals to the churches that they are under observation, just like other social organizations in Rwanda. I take that as a clear warning.”