March 22, 2018 Kenyatta University in Kenya will host the first Masters Degree program in regional integration 
The admission of the pioneer students of the COMESA Virtual University will commence in May 2018 at the Kenyatta University in Kenya. 
According to a media statement, the admission, planned to kick off in September 2017, was delayed to allow the conclusion of administrative procedures of the university education regulatory authority in Kenya. 
Kenyatta University was selected to host the first Masters Degree program in regional integration during a consultative forum of the 22 collaborating universities from COMESA Member States. 
“At the forum, it was agreed to commence a collaborative masters’ degree programme in regional integration in the medium term, with an objective of establishing a fully-fledged university in the long run,” the statement indicates. 
The COMESA Virtual University Masters Degree is a multi-disciplinary program intended to bring together world-class academics, researchers and practitioners from leading institutions around the world to learning centres in participating universities through a virtual platform. The course is a professional course designed for government officials working in departments dealing with trade, integration and cooperation issues and students intending to work as trade officers, trade policy analysts, advisers, researchers and trade attaches. 
It also targets the private sector trade practitioners and economic operators; journalists covering trade issues; chambers of commerce, manufacturer and consumer associations, diplomatic missions, development organizations dealing with trade and integration issues, among others. It is also suitable for middle level trade researchers and consultants. 
The teaching modules for 30 courses have been developed with financial support from the African Capacity Building Foundation (ACBF). The review process was done by academic experts across the world to ensure good quality of the material and knowledge to be passed to the students. 
The program will provide a sound conceptual, policy and practical training on regional integration, but will also help extend access to research opportunities and higher education on regional integration within and outside the COMESA region. The program covers economics, trade, law, political economy, trade and finance, IT and innovation, among others. 
Dr Chris Kiptoo, the Principal Secretary in the State Department of International Trade pledged Kenya’s commitment in ensuring the implementation of the programme begins as planned. 
In the first Trimester, five core courses will be taught: Economic Research Methodology; Microeconomic Foundations for Trade; International Trade Theory and Policy; International Trade Law and Theory of Regional Integration. 
The programme was launched in October 2016 during the COMESA Heads of State Summit in Madagascar as a response to some of the challenges facing regional integration not only in COMESA but Africa at large. 
It is believed that the small number of continental institutions offering appropriate, flexible and affordable Regional Integration programs is a contributing factor. The COMESA Virtual University is therefore a response to this situation.