Friday March 23 2018 The swift second generation Rav4 The RAV4 Short Chassis has a more chiseled and sharp exterior design which gives it an elegant appeal. Photos by David S. Mukooza In Summary The interior of this Toyota RAV4 is designed and built with the urban but adventurous young family in mind. Modern and practical seat layouts, ample storage facilities and access to convenient features and accessory controls. The car has dual front airbags and side curtain airbags, ISOFIX child seat harnessing points on rear seat, Anti-lock brakes (ABS) electronic brake force distribution (EBD). Advertisement By David S. Mukooza 
The second generation Toyota RAV4 is a compact crossover SUV (Sport Utility Vehicle) produced by the Japanese automobile manufacturer Toyota. The vehicle was designed for consumers with a desire for a vehicle that had most of the benefits of SUVs, such as higher visibility and the option of full-time four-wheel drive, along with the manoeuvrability and fuel economy of a compact car.This vehicle was improved to offer better dynamic safety, comfort, higher visibility, better fuel economy and engine power, multi terrain access as well as excellent reputation for reliability. This is what basically describes the short chassis model 2003. 
Performance The second generation Toyota RAV4 is not a performance leader in the compact SUV crowd but with its 2.0 litre petrol engine, it responds well to acceleration while providing good fuel economy. However, one driver says the Short chassis is a 1.8 litre petrol engine, which makes its fuel consumption affordable. The Variable Valve Timing intelligent (VVTi) with Double Overhead camshaft (DOHC) engine drive train technology in the Short chassis displays an impressive mix between economy and performance. The Continuously Variable Transmission - CVT shifts smoothly while adapting to one’s driving style and engine load to provide optimum power delivery with the least fuel consumption. 
Handling The second generation Toyota RAV4 is comfortable to drive because its front axle has independent McPherson gas struts with coil springs and stabiliser bars. Its rear suspension has four wheel independent suspension with trailing links, double wishbone, stabiliser bar and coil springs. This ensures a good road grip and responsive steering. The same car does not sway or swerve easily when driven fast around sharp bends. The electronic stability and traction control programmes enhance road holding and safe manoeuvring. Electronic brake force distribution with brake assist prevent skidding and facilitate safe sudden stopping should the need arise. 
The RAV4 Short Chassis also has plenty of cargo space 
Reliability, maintenance and resale value Like all the earlier released models the Toyota RAV4 ZA SPEC 2003 has a good reliability track record. However, engine oil and filter servicing must be done regularly with reputable lubricants of the Toyota recommended grade and viscosity. 
When buying a used RAV4 of this calibre, you need to carefully inspect the engine, transmission, brakes, suspension and body. Their DOHC drive trains and electronic fuel injection systems are sensitive and require high grade engine oil and clean unleaded fuel. Maintenance should be carried out with genuine parts from independent and appointed parts dealers with genuine Toyota parts. Generally, body and suspension parts for this RAV4 model are costly but are starting to become more available. 
Design, and safety The only challenge with this vehicle is that passengers have to adjust the front seats to access the back. It is also not fit for a large family since it cannot accommodate more than five people.The RAV4 Short Chassis has a more chiselled and sharp exterior design which gives it a feminine, slender but elegant appeal with promise to perform well both on and off the road. Interior The interior of this Toyota RAV4 is designed and built with the urban but adventurous young family in mind. Modern and practical seat layouts, ample storage facilities and access to convenient features and accessory controls.Its interior finish also has a modern chrome look with a practical sense of style and easy to access knobs and switches. On the other hand, inside and out the RAV4 has a level of style and attention to detail that is unsurpassed with other small SUVs, and it feels rugged enough to put up with weekend “active lifestyle” outings, which is not the case with other compact SUVs and crossovers. 
Its grown-up feel, traditional SUV shape, and full-time four-wheel-drive system make it stand out from the crowd. If you want a compact SUV that is easy to drive and comfortable for the highway but with just a little bit of rugged character, frugality and dependability are priorities too, this might just be your ride. 
Cost In most bonds around Kampala, this car goes for Shs27m. However one’s bargaining power can push the cost a bit lower. 
Safety and comfort features The car has dual front airbags and side curtain airbags, ISOFIX child seat harnessing points on rear seat, Anti-lock brakes (ABS) electronic brake force distribution (EBD). It also has emergency brake assist, electronic stability programme with traction control, side and front impact intrusion beams, and three point seat belts. This has earned it an average of four stars in global safety test rating. 
Pros • The RAV4’s has a good predicted reliability rating, and it earns praise for being solid and well-built. • Admirable crash test scores and a wealth of safety technology also make the RAV4 a decent SUV. • Its cargo space is among the highest in the class. Cons • Body and suspension parts for are costly but are just starting to become more available. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com