Which one is better between a Premio and Spacio? In Summary In fuel economy terms the 1.8 litre engines on both options will more or less give you the same fuel efficiency and differences will be due to loading of passengers or cargo, how you drive and service condition. The Premio saloon’s more aero dynamic structure has better drive ability on the highway because of better response to dynamic and torsional road forces as well as a lower coefficient of drag during high speed driving. Advertisement By Paul Kaganzi 
Hello Paul, I need to buy a car for my brother who is torn between a Toyota Premio and Toyota Spacio. He will sometimes have to travel with elderly people to the village. Which car should we buy? Robert. 
Hello Robert, the Toyota Premio is a sedan saloon car while the Toyota Spacio is a Multi-Purpose Vehicle (MPV). Your choice between the two will be based on their functionality and your brother’s transport needs. The sedan or saloon car (Premio) is usually a two row five passenger transporter with four doors and an extended trunk. Space for the passengers and cargo is fixed and cannot easily be adjusted. 
On the other hand the Spacio has a three row, five to seven seating capacity with the space for passengers and cargo shared interchangeable. One can deploy seven seats to accommodate more passengers or carry one passenger and fold down the centre and rear seat rows to create extra cargo space. 
In fuel economy terms the 1.8 litre engines on both options will more or less give you the same fuel efficiency and differences will be due to loading of passengers or cargo, how you drive and service condition. 
The Premio saloon’s more aero dynamic structure has better drive ability on the highway because of better response to dynamic and torsional road forces as well as a lower coefficient of drag during high speed driving. Premio would be a better option for a frequent highway traveller who has only three to four passengers and minimal cargo. Spacio on the other hand is a good shuttle for kids and family with shopping, parcel or cargo delivery. advertisement 