Auma expecting better strides in Botswana Advertisement By Swaib Raul Kanyike 
KAMPALA. 
At 22, Grace Auma is one of the experienced players in the current Lady Cranes 7s team. The Black Pearls player made her debut during the 2015 African Olympics qualifiers at Kempton Park, South Africa.A year later, she was instrumental in the team that finished fourth in Zimbabwe. She was Uganda’s top try scorer, with four tries, a feat that won her the Uspa Women’s rugby player of the year award. At   Tunisia, Auma didn’t quite replicate her form of the previous year, managing a single try. With such exposure and experience, Auma stands head and shoulders above many in the team currently preparing for this year’s championship in Botswana. After all, out of the 19 players undergoing training, seven are uncapped. 
Confident To some, Uganda’s fourth place finish in 2016 and 2017 was more of a half empty glass rather than half full. For Auma, there is need to push into the top positions.“I think we shall take a step forward (from fourth position). The intensity at which we are working in training is one that I had never been through. I can say this year’s team is the best that I have ever been part of,” she told Daily Monitor yesterday after her personal evening training shift in Jinja.Auma also believes the competition in the women’s 15s league will have a say in this year’s fortunes. “This season went into the last day with the title race still open. That shows you that the level of the league was high. And that will impact on individual players,” she added.Unlike in the past where Thunderbirds would run away with the league title way before the end of the league, this year’s race went down to the wire, with Entebbe Ladies and Black Pearls in hot pursuit. Thunderbirds won after thumping Black Panthers 46-00. There are seven uncapped players in the 19-man squad, but Auma is convinced that by the time the championship comes calling in May, the team will have built the required chemistry. advertisement