Museveni asks sportsmen to emulate NRA fighters ‘‘we defeated a big Army- due to endurance’’ March 23, 2018 - Advertisement - 
President Museveni has highlighted four key issues Ugandans Sportsmen and women must embrace if they are to fly past giants. The president made the remarks early this week as he flagged off Team Uganda for the 21st Commonwealth Games slated to start on 4th April 2018 in Gold Coast, Australia. The delegation comprises 69 sports competitors and 32 officials 
The contingent comprises boxers, badminton players, cyclists, swimmers, squash, rugby and netball players. Other disciplines are shooting, table tennis and weight lifting. A total of 70 Commonwealth countries with 6,000 sports men and women are participating. “A sportsman must be fit, disciplined, be strategic, must be cooperative and have endurance. You must have a character of endurance. When 27 people went to the bush and defeated a big Army, it was due to endurance. These qualities are not only applicable to sports but in all spheres of life,” he said as he flagged the team. - Advertisement - 
As he called on the officials to ensure that the competitors get sufficient nutrition to enable them achieve the set goals, Mr. Museveni further noted the need for building the character of endurance. He revealed that he has been following up sports for about 50 years adding that cooperation is a vital component towards their success. He called on them to fully utilize their sports talent for the benefit of the global community adding that sportsmanship outcompetes other talents in fame. The President asked the Uganda contingent to strive and use their talents well on top of guarding them jealously. 
The President congratulated them for meeting the minimum requirements for the global competition in various disciplines as he wished them good luck in their competitions. He said that the High Altitude Institute in the Sebei Sub-Region in Eastern Uganda was instrumental in making good sports people. 
‘ ‘I wish the team good luck. I am glad there’s better planning this time. Issues of logistics were handled early. If the team does well, I promise to slaughter some bulls upon their return and we celebrate.’’ The president said. The President of the Commonwealth Games Association of Uganda, Mr. William Blick, saluted President Museveni for supporting them with a supplementary budget of Shs. 3.2 billion. - Advertisement -