Home / SPORTS / ‘A top team in a top league’– Bolt explains his football wish ‘A top team in a top league’– Bolt explains his football wish The Independent March 23, 2018 SPORTS Leave a comment 130 Views 
Dortmund, Germany | AFP | Athletics legend Usain Bolt insists he is serious about realising his dream of becoming a top-class footballer after training with Borussia Dortmund. 
“I really want to try and make it professionally, to play at a high level,” the sprint superstar told reporters on Friday at the German league club. 
“My goal is to make a top team and play in one of the top leagues in the world.” 
— Bundesliga English (@Bundesliga_EN) March 23, 2018 
Nearly 200 journalists and around 1,500 fans saw the eight-time Olympic gold medallist put through his paces with the first-team squad at Dortmund’s training ground. 
Having already trained with the team behind closed doors on Thursday, Friday’s open session could be seen as a publicity stunt as both Bolt and Dortmund are sponsored by Puma. 
The Bundesliga club live-streamed the training session and in China alone 1.2 million viewers tuned in. 
The 31-year-old Bolt insists he is deadly serious about starting a new career – at an age when most footballers are hanging up their boots. 
–‘Unfit’– 
Bolt, who retired from athletics last year, admits he lacks the endurance fitness football demands. 
“Overall, I’d give myself a seven out of ten,” he said. 
“It was fun, the guys were cool and they were welcoming, but I can tell I was unfit. 
“I like to play on the wing, right now I am unfit so I try to stay up top (as a striker). 
“I’ve heard a lot about the fans here – that really was an experience.” 
— Usain St. Leo Bolt (@usainbolt) March 23, 2018 
As expected, Bolt, the 100m and 200m world record holder, showed phenomenal pace over the turf. 
He was proud of the header he scored in a practice game, but admits having much to learn. 
“I’m tall, so it’s one of the things I have practised over the years,” he said of his header with sweat pouring down his face. 
“I was working hard out there, I wanted to play my best, move and give the guys options.” Share on: