Five remanded over death of a Finnish national Chief Magistrate, Mr James Ereemye remanded the five to Luzira. File photo Advertisement By BETTY NDAGIRE 
KAMPALA. Buganda Road Chief Magistrates Court has remanded five people to Luzira prison, including an Internal Security Organization (ISO) officer, in connection with causing the death of a Finnish national, last month. The accused persons are; Faridah Nagayi receptionist in Qatar, Fatuma Kabagambe a house wife, Nassifu a driver, Caroline Alinda a businesswoman, and Appolo Kyabagye asenior intelligence officer with ISO. Appearing in a session presided over by the Chief Magistrate, Mr James Ereemye he read four counts ranging from manslaughter, trafficking in narcotic drugs, forgery of an invitation document and conspiracy to commit the offence, which offences the accused denied. Upon denying the charges, prosecution led by Ms Nelly Asiku told court that investigations are not complete. The presiding magistrate, Mr Ereemye, opted to remand the accused until April 5, for mention. On the counts of manslaughter and trafficking in narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, prosecution contends that Nagayi, Kabagambe and Walusimbi, on the February 6, at Pearl of Africa Hotel in Kampala, the three unlawfully caused the death of Terasvuori Tuomas Juha Petteri, 42, a Finland national, when they allegedly delivered narcotic drugs to him a day before. READ: Two Europeans die in Kampala hotels Prosecution further states that Alinda and Kyabagye on February 2, in Kampala forged an invitation letter dated February 2, 2018 purporting that the alleged document was signed by Col Frank Bagyenda Kaka the head of ISO. The duo is facing the count of conspiracy to forge the document in question alongside Nagayi. The case against the five come at the time when Col Kaka has dismissed as “trash” allegations that Patteri one of the two European men who died in two Kampala hotels had come to Uganda on his invitation. 
Daily Monitor reported last month that the two men died on February 5 and February 6 in Sheraton and Pearl of Africa hotels, that are about a kilometre apart. 
The deceased are Petteri, a Finnish who died at Pearl of Africa Hotel on February 5, and Alex Sebastian, 41, a Sweden national, who died in his room at Sheraton Hotel on February 6. advertisement