Why did Mr Museveni skip the AU Summit in Rwanda? Asuman Bisiika In Summary Do you still remember the appointment of my friend Dr Richard Sezibera as Secretary General of the East African Community? Do you still remember the elections of the Speaker of East Africa Legislatively Assembly?Instead of using such situations to make diplomatic leverage, Rwanda’s attitude is always: If we deserve it and qualify to have it, then we must have it (doesn’t matter whether other people’s feelings are hurt). In Kinyarwanda, it is intsinzi ningombwa (we either win or they lose). And win Rwandans always do; situations, though not friends (in the neighbourhood). Whereas Rwanda’s relationship with the UK and the US are very important, her relationship with Uganda is critical. Ditto for Tanzania; Burundi too. Advertisement By Asuman Bisiika 
Whereas Rwanda’s relationship with the UK and the US are very important, her relationship with Uganda is critical. Ditto for Tanzania; Burundi too. When Dr Kizza Besigye linked IGP Kale Kayihura’s dismissal to the poor relationship between Uganda and Rwanda, I protested in a Facebook post.It didn’t matter whether Dr Besigye was right or wrong; his remarks were unnecessary and lacked in value addition to his political point. As a former actor, beneficiary and (later) a victim of the dynamics of the Uganda-Rwanda relationship, I am more inclined to tease out issues and actions that can lead to the improvement of this important relationship.That is why I am requesting president Paul Kagame to be the moderate voice in this matter. Afande, in spite of ‘the pesky and annoying actions of the Ugandans’, please act and be the moderate voice that would put this important relationship back on the rails. 
Rwanda is more diplomatically sensitive at world stage (multilateral). The UK and US are Rwanda’s most important bilateral partners. At regional and neighbourhood level, there are always ‘small small’ and avoidable diplomatic issues with her neighbours. 
Do you still remember the appointment of my friend Dr Richard Sezibera as Secretary General of the East African Community? 
Do you still remember the elections of the Speaker of East Africa Legislatively Assembly?Instead of using such situations to make diplomatic leverage, Rwanda’s attitude is always: If we deserve it and qualify to have it, then we must have it (doesn’t matter whether other people’s feelings are hurt). 
In Kinyarwanda, it is intsinzi ningombwa (we either win or they lose). And win Rwandans always do; situations, though not friends (in the neighbourhood). Whereas Rwanda’s relationship with the UK and the US are very important, her relationship with Uganda is critical. Ditto for Tanzania; Burundi too.Ms Louise Mushikiwabo is the minister for Foreign Affairs (and government spokesperson) while Mr Olivier Nduhumgirehe is the Minister of State. The permanent secretary is Claude Nikobisanzwe, a ‘veteran and casualty’ of the ‘formerly’ poor relationship between South Africa and Rwanda. None of the three personalities at Minafet (Foreign Affairs) share a refugee heritage in Uganda. And don’t get me wrong; it really doesn’t matter that these three people don’t have childhood connections in Uganda. But… 
But we need to appreciate the fact that the Uganda-Rwanda relationship (diplomatic or otherwise), has always been a matter of kitchen or bedroom diplomacy. The formal structural organisation of Rwanda’s diplomatic machinery will most likely miss that extra spice in the handling of the Uganda-Rwanda diplomacy. 
The working title for this piece was ‘Gen Kagame should bring Brig Dr Emmanuel Ndahiro back’. The last time I checked, the said Dr Ndahiro was director of military hospital at Kanombe. Some observers say Dr Ndahiro’s absence from president Kagame’s inner diplomatic circle has been felt. Hated and loved in equal measure, Dr Ndahiro kept Kagame’s inner diplomatic projection on an even keel. His tact is now missing.Now, for the sake of total disclosure, I am (or was) personally known to the said Ndahiro. He grew up in Kasese, you know. I am not rooting for him; I am just saying he would handle the Uganda-Rwanda relationship with more tact than the officials at Minafet. 
And I know he had problems with Uganda’s security establishment. But the Ugandans knew that through him, their word would reach Kagame (and would most likely be acted on). Mr Kagame, please act and be the moderate voice that would put this important relationship back on the rails. And please, just bring Dr Ndahiro back to Village Urugwiro (State House).So, why did Mr Museveni skip the AU Summit in Rwanda? I don’t know. advertisement