Saturday March 24 2018 Who has right of way on our roads? For now, none of us is going anywhere fast, unless you are a VIP or emergency vehicle with the benefit of sirens to get you through the gridlock. FILE PHOTO In Summary Traffic jams have become such a nightmare that a traveller needs 40 minutes to an hour to get through a 1.3km stretch of road. Many report losing, on average, two hours in transit to and from work. Section 123 of Traffic and Road Safety Act, 1998, gives the right of way to emergency vehicles defined as “a motor vehicle, trailer or engineering plant for the purpose of the police, ambulances, motor vehicles of armed forces and such other vehicles that may be designated by the minister by a statutory order”. Advertisement By EDITOR 
We may have to build satellite cities, widen our roads, build flyovers and install more traffic lights to get out of the traffic jam in which we find ourselves. For now, none of us is going anywhere fast. Well, unless you are a VIP or emergency vehicle with the benefit of sirens to get you through the gridlock. Traffic jams have become such a nightmare that a traveller needs 40 minutes to an hour to get through a 1.3km stretch of road. Many report losing, on average, two hours in transit to and from work.Section 123 of Traffic and Road Safety Act, 1998, gives the right of way to emergency vehicles defined as “a motor vehicle, trailer or engineering plant for the purpose of the police, ambulances, motor vehicles of armed forces and such other vehicles that may be designated by the minister by a statutory order”.Under this provision in 2004 then minister of Works and Transport John Nasasira designated a number of motor vehicles to have the right of way as emergency motor vehicles under regulation 5(2) of Traffic and Road Safety Regulations, 2004. The President’s convoy is listed under emergency vehicles along with the Vice President, Speaker, Deputy Speaker and Prime Minister. Others who enjoy right of way include visiting dignitaries, and lately, an increasing number of senior government officials whose identity one can only guess at by type of car, license plates, and logos such as army or prison services.The issue of right of way has proved controversial on occasion. One category of people excluded under the provision for right of way are cultural leaders who in some cases, have guards to clear their way. In February 2016, matters came to a head when Apollo Sansa Kabumbuli, the Kamuswaga of Kooki Chiefdom, was arrested by Special Forces Command officers for refusing to give way to the convoy of Vice President Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi. The Kamuswaga’s vehicle was impounded amid angry reactions from loyalists.The next conflict is bound to arise when a certain private citizen in a monster pickup truck with a speeding lead car and blaring siren crashes into a line of vehicles snaking their way through one of the city suburbs. Maybe then police will come out to pronounce itself on why even vehicles with civilian license plates can push everyone off the road during rush hour. advertisement