The Bell is Ringing: Martin Aliker’s story Samuel Sejjaaka. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary According to Aliker, he began his early education in one of the vernacular speaking schools near his home. On his return to Uganda, he worked at Mulago briefly before going into private business. In reading his story, one never fails to note the humour ‘lurking’ at every turn of the racy tale. If you have never met Martin Aliker, then all I can tell you is that they rarely ‘make’ men like him anymore. Advertisement By Samuel Sejjaaka 
I missed the actual launch of Martin Aliker’s autobiography, so I do not know what he said in his speech. However, I was still fortunate to find the Rwot of Temajo at the venue and I had a few minutes to congratulate him and also get him to autograph my copy. At almost 90, he is still incisive and has a razor-sharp memory. “Why the title Martin?” I asked. To which he laughed and straight away started regaling me with the story. 
According to Aliker, he began his early education in one of the vernacular speaking schools near his home. For Class 3, his parents moved him to a school for the children of chiefs at Gulu and the language of instruction was English. Being a newcomer, he did not understand anything in the first lesson of the day and when the class monitor rang the bell, all his classmates in unison shouted “the bell is ringing!” And so he thought he would never learn the language! 
The bell has been ringing for Martin since then. From these humble beginnings, he went on to make incredibly great achievements. Moving on to Kings College Budo and then Makerere, Aliker studied to become a dental surgeon. It is one thing to say that he was the son of a chief, but that only put him in the right place from which he went on to make his luck. 
While at Makerere, he approached one of his teachers to help him go and study medicine in the United States. His persistence paid off and not only did he go on to become one of the first Ugandan dental practitioners and study political science as well, he also came home with a wife. 
On his return to Uganda, he worked at Mulago briefly before going into private business. His forthrightness and astute business mind led him from one business conquest to another. Uncannily, and with the lucky ‘rub of the green’, he seems to have made untypical investment decisions for a dentist. Instead of brick and mortar, he invested in companies that made and sold things. He was diligent and worked hard at his practice. 
Having witnessed independence, he was hopeful for the future, but things didn’t always work out as expected and exile soon followed the arrival of Idi Amin. Again he went on to thrive, having lifted himself through the networks he established. Eventually he returned to Uganda to resume his life. And what a life he has led! 
From being a minister in government, to meeting all the World’s ‘crème de la crème’, to being a ‘chairman of chairmen’, Martin has seen it all and I suppose that is the most telling part of his life’s story. His insights into the minds of men who have led Uganda are gems to savour and make this well-written book a keepsake. 
Aliker, the man who would have been president of Uganda, had he taken up the opportunity, remained firmly rooted to the ground. A thoughtful and objective fellow, he has always remained conscientious and mindful of the feelings of others. If you have never met Martin Aliker, then all I can tell you is that they rarely ‘make’ men like him anymore. 
In reading his story, one never fails to note the humour ‘lurking’ at every turn of the racy tale. The one that had my ribs cracking is when he met with John Vorster, who was prime minister of South Africa between 1966 and 1978, and served as the fourth state president of South Africa from 1978 to 1979. He recalls how Vorster told him about the dispute regarding whether sex was hard work or pleasurable. The matter was settled when the Blacks assured Vorster that sex was more pleasurable because if it weren’t, then the Whites would have left it to the Blacks!Aliker ends his autobiography with the same advice he gave me whenever I have had a chance to seek his wise counsel. “Whatever, you decide, be true to yourself Sam.” 
Story.