Saturday March 24 2018 Audition time runs out as World Cup bell rings Limping. As Germany do final preparations for their World Cup defence, captain Neuer is struggling with a foot fracture injury which could hamper coach Low’s plans for Russia. But the Bayern shot-stopper has vowed to be back before the current Bundesliga season ends. AFP PHOTO Advertisement By ISMAIL DHAKABA KIGONGO 
There is familiar rhetoric you must have seen or read during their often ‘unwelcome’ international break at which time your lives seem to stop.Players are hoping to convince their respective national team coaches to pick them for this summer’s Fifa World Cup in Russia. It is about 80 days to the world’s biggest event.“In these games I have to convince the coach to take me to the World Cup and I’m going to do all that I can to be there,” Argentine striker Gonzalo Higuain said this week. The forward is a player in need of redemption. He ‘wasted’ Albiceleste’s best chance in the ninth place when Toni Kroos’ misplaced back pass let him through on Manuel Neuer’s goal. Higuain dragged his shot wide.Mario Gotze’s extra-time winner ensured Germany’s first title since 1990. Gotze demonstrated perfect technique and commendable calm to chest down Andre Schurrle’s pass and sweep in a left-foot finish. 
Under pressure Gotze illuminated what Higuain lacked. This is one of those elements – calmness under pressure – that coaches will be looking for during this window.For the benefit of this column, dedicated to the Germany Bundesliga and the national team, we will attempt to delve into a few areas that coach Joachim Low is definitely paying attention to.Friendlies against Spain and Brazil should provide more than sufficient answers to settle on a final 23, after all most coaches have 15-20 places taken. 
Neuer injury Captain Manuel Neuer has not played since September. A metatarsal fracture, his third in less than a year, ruled him out after that.The goalkeeper has been away for six months and is unlikely for Bayern Munich’s season climax.It’s not that Germany lack a goalkeeper, they don’t. Barcelona’s Marc-André ter Stegen is an able deputy and one of the most improved in Europe this season.Neuer’s understudy at club level – Jan Ulreich is third choice. Bayer Leverkusen’s Bernd Leno is next in line. However, none is a leader like Neuer. 
Captaincy & Gotze If Neuer doesn’t make the World Cup, Low has to pick a substantive captain. Real Madrid’s Toni Kroos and Bayern’s Mats Hummels have deputised when Neuer is away. Thomas Muller, the most capped among the current team on 89 games, and defender Jerome Boateng should be candidates too.Julian Draxler is one being groomed for the role permanently after being asked to lead Germany’s ‘understudy’ side at the Fifa Confederations Cup which they won last year.A troubled season at PSG means he, too, must be fighting for his place in Russia, just like the 2014 World Cup winning hero Gotze.The return to fitness Marco Reus should guarantee him a place in the team at the expense of Gotze and Schurrle. There hasn’t been growth for Gotze, now 25, since the goal at the Maracanã. 
International friendlies 
Portugal vs. Netherlands (SS3, 10.30PM)fixtures - tuesday, march 27Egypt vs. Greece (SS4, 8.45PM)Germany vs. Brazil (SS5, 9.30PM)England vs. Italy (SS3, 9.45PM) 
ismailkdm@ug.nationmedia.com