Saturday March 24 2018 Anguyo sets sights on Cranes homecoming after five-year limbo Anguyo has put in a stellar season for Pirates and is hoping that he can force the arm of the selectors when the international season starts. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary In coach’s good books. The 2007 African Champion has already caught Cranes coach Robert Seguya’s eye and he admits to have him in his plans when the Gold Cup that also doubles as 2019 World Cup Qualifiers get underway. Advertisement By DEUS BUGEMBE 
Representing one’s nation is every child’s dream like it was for Joel Anguyo before he achieved it in 2005 as captain of the Baby Cranes in Namibia. He would go on to play for the senior side at the 2006 George Sevens HSBC Leg in South Africa. But his fondest of debuts was that of the 15s code in 2007 when he played against Kenya in the Elgon Cup in Nairobi despite ending up on the losing side as the hosts triumphed 35-15. The lock then became a regular until 2013 when Uganda lost all its games and got relegated to Tier 1B. “It was a bad feeling for us. Everyone was concerned,” Anguyo told SCORE. The same year saw him suffer an ankle injury in the regional Bamburi Rugby Super Series. 
Personal obligations Apart from the injury, Anguyo had plenty on his plate. “I got a bad ankle injury and also deal with some life aspects which meant I had to stay away from rugby,” he recalls. It could not get any worse as Anguyo found out his body could no longer partake the tough rigours that many rugby players endure. “Then I also had some bit of health issues but now all that is down the gutter and I am glad,” adds Anguyo. Towards the end of last year, the lanky lock resurfaced with Buzz Black Pirates and within a month, he was a Uganda Cup Champion as the Sea Robbers won their first piece of silverware in a decade. Anguyo has been an integral part of the Pirates side that has looked the safest bet to bag a maiden title this season as they enjoy a six-point leverage at the summit with a couple of games left to play. 
Mutual respect “Team work has propelled us this far. The mutual respect between the coach Bobby Musinguzi and the players is another factor,” explains the kicking forward, who hopes to win his fourth league title this season. ‘Debbo’ like his peers refer to him, is back up and running with sights on donning the national colours once again come the international season later in the year. “Well I hope to see myself don that Uganda jersey with pride once,” he tell SCORE with a smile emanating from his face. 
Leadership skills With the national side short on experience at Second Row, Anguyo’s availability would be music to the selectors ears. His leadership and technical ability could recipe well with the probable picks of Charles Uhuru, Elphaz Emong and Mathias Ochwo to heighten stability at position. The 2007 African Champion has already caught Cranes coach Robert Seguya’s eye and he admits to have him in his plans when the Gold Cup that also doubles as 2019 World Cup Qualifiers get underway. 
Seguya’s nod “He has been doing well at Pirates and we will see if he can force his way into the side when the business end of training takes centre stage,” explained Seguya. Anguyo knows a thing or two about Seguya as they were teammates during the Sea Robber’s first stint in the Cranes fold. No wonder he knows that only hitting his peak will guarantee him place in Seguya’s good books. “Well, personally I feel am not yet at my peak. Probably since I am just making a comeback and trying to rediscover the old form or even get better. So I am working on getting to the peak, though it is harder now and I don’t have as much free time as it was the case back in the days,” admits the 2005 Namilyango College School rugby league winning captain. Anguyo’s inclusion to the side would give the Rugby Cranes a number of kicking options as he boasts of a good percentage scoring rate with his boots for both penalties and conversions for Pirates this season. advertisement