Saturday March 24 2018 Desabre auditions Cranes semi-pros Coach Desabre (C) will have a keen eye on each of the players summoned for this friendly with special attention to rookies Mugabi and Bayo. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary Soccer. New coach Sébastien Desabre summoned an exciting mix of seasoned Cranes campaigners, rookies and a couple of forgotten faces. Today they get their first audition. Advertisement By ELVIS SENONO 
KAMPALA. 
The Uganda Cranes don’t have a competitive fixture until September when they resume the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations Qualifiers with a home tie against Tanzania.Consequently, Cranes coach Sébastien Desabre, appointed in late December, is using each international break to acquaint himself with foreign-based players starting with today’s game against Sao Tomé and Príncipe.“It is important to play several games before the crucial game against Tanzania. I chose two games at home with the same conditions to check the atmosphere on the field and out.The first time is for the boys to learn my principals and the evaluation of the players to choose the final players for the official game,” Desabre stated. He has maintained a number of players previously used by his predecessors with the notable absentee being Khalid Aucho, who left to finalise a deal with Indian side East Bengal.“There is a big pool to choose from so I am sure there are still other players in the coach’s plans but us who are here can give 100 per cent so that he understands the performance level of his team. “I expect those that get a chance to feature on Saturday and Tuesday to give their all to show that they deserve to be on the team,” Hassan Wasswa said ahead of the game.England based defender Bevis Mugabi, Masavu forward Abraham Nduggwa and Zambia-based duo Hood Kawesa and Fahad Bayo are in line to make their debuts in a squad that has five home-based players.Today’s game which will be followed by Tuesday’s encounter against Malawi is Desabre’s first in charge of the senior side at home having been in charge of the Chan team that picked a point from three group games. The Cranes play a Sao Tome and Principe side that was expected in the country yesterday and is winless in their last seven games including 2019 Afcon qualification games to Madagascar and the Chan qualifier to Cameroon. 
Cranes squad for friendlies Goalkeepers: Denis Onyango, Robert Odongkara, Jamal Salim 
Defenders: Nico Wakiro Wadada, Denis Iguma, Godfrey Walusimbi, Joseph Ochaya, Bevis Mugabi , Murushid Jjuuko, Isaac Isinde, Timothy Awany, Alex Kakuba 
Midfielders: Hassan Wasswa Mawanda, Tadeo Lwanga, Abraham Ndugwa, Milton Karisa, Geoffrey Kizito, Luwagga Kizito Strikers: Emmanuel Okwi, Yunus Ssentamu, Hood Kawesa, Fahad Bayo, Derrick Nsibambi 
TODAY AT NAMBOOLE STADIUM Cranes vs. Sao Tome & Principe, 4PMTuesday, March 27 - NAMBOOLE*(Entry Fees: Shs5,000 per match) advertisement