Kickboxing future uncertain as ‘big talker’ Golola entrenches hegemony Ruthless. Golola (R) punished Kikenwa enroute to a clinical victory. PHOTO BY JOHN BATANUDDE. Advertisement By DENIS BBOSA 
Promoter Malik Kaliisa shot himself in the foot when he announced his next ‘blockbuster’ fight – Moses Golola vs Umar Semata.Propelled by the massive turn-up in Golola’s recent knockout victory over Abu Kikenwa that had Freedom City Hall filled to the rafters, Kaliisa has his sights set on another big payday. While announcing the ‘Fight of the Year’ at Mt Zion Hotel in Kampala on Tuesday, Kaliisa frantically forgot he was pitting Golola, fighting in 85kgs category with lightweight Semata, who fights in the 66kgs category.Whereas, Semata is schooled in the Thailand kickboxing academy, it gives him no privilege to break the world kickboxing rules to fight someone way above his weight just because they have a ‘long standing beef’ and wants to be the ‘new bull in the kraal’. Even when he promises to knockout Semata when they meet in October, Golola called out Uganda Kickboxing Federation (UKbF) president Hassan Ssekirime to explain the proper criteria fighters should use to make big fights.“Fighters and fans don’t know the value of these belts and procedures taken to get them. Out of nowhere fighters just come to challenge me because I am the national and East African champion,” Golola spoke with anger.He was spot on, his latest victim Kikenwa, a pot-bellied and unfit challenger, had dared him with deficient fighting records only to be knockout out haplessly in the third round. “I know Ssemata is ambitious to fight mighty men and his dream is yet to come before he meets me,” Golola roared.With 36 wins in 41 fights, Golola has vanquished all Ugandan competitors like Titus Tugume and Ronald Mugula among others to keep his legacy. But Golola says he is willing to bend low and fight Semata - only if ‘he feeds and gains weight’. Kickboxing coach Latif Walugembe reckons the fight may boil down to who has more skills rather than weight issues. “Semata is a deadly fighter yet Golola has beaten all the rest. It will be a good fight,” he opined.Semata, boasting of 44 wins, 30 losses and three draws remains defiant; “I have lost to better opponents Golola will only dare to meet in his dreams.” But what happens to the game at a broader scale when Golola is done with Semata?“My only worry is that Golola has been the reason kickboxing exists in Uganda and if he loses, the game may be affected,” Walugembe reckons. Yes, there are more skilled fighters in lower division like Sharif Bukenya, Shakey Mubiru, Richard Ddamulira and Ramathan Walujjo, but Golola, with his charming character remains the driver of the game locally. Kaliisa says he is reviving the game that has been in a deep slumber recently and ‘giving the fans fights they want’ but it may be time for Golola to seek international challenge again rather than fighting his prospecting successors. 
Profiles