Kitatta begs court to be transferred to a ‘better’ Prison, request rejected   
The General Court Martial has defended its action to detain boda boda 2010 patron Abdalla Kitatta, at the Makindye military police detention centre. While appearing before the Makindye- based General Court Martial on Monday, the patron of the notorious group told court that he has health complications which Makindye Military Barracks Prison medical officers cannot handle. 
Through his lawyers led by Shaban Sanywa, Kitatta asked court to be transferred to another prison because of his illness that can only be treated while in a government prison. “We ask that he is transferred to either Luzira or Kigo so that he can get treatment,”Sanywa asked. However, the court chairman, Lt Gen Andrew Gutti declined to grant Kitatta’s request saying he was remanded to the military barracks for his own safety and security reasons. - Advertisement - 
Lt Gen Gutti explained that Military Barracks Prison has the best health facility. Adding that it is for this reason that Kitatta was taken to Makindye Military Police Barracks Prison while his co-accused were remanded to Luzira. He said that the Makindye army health facility has excellent facilities to handle Kitatta’s ailment. Kitatta and his co-accused are faces charges of unlawful possession of an SMG rifle and a pistol without a valid firearm licence , contrary to Section 3 and section 2 of the fire arms act. 
The group is also accused of unlawful possession of military equipment including headgear and uniforms which are a monopoly of the defence forces. The offences against the group are criminal in nature and attract maximum sentences of death and life imprisonment respectively according to the UPDF Act 2005. 
Kitatta is jointly charged with 13 others. They are: John Ssebandeke, a crime preventer in Nabweru in Wakiso District, and members of Boda Boda 2010 Association; Joel Kibirige, Matia Ssenfuka, Hassan Ssebata, Jonathan Kayondo and Hassan Ssengoba. Others are; Sunday Ssemogerere, Hussein Mugema, Fred Bwanika, Amon Twinomujuni, Sowali Ngoobi and Ibrahim Sekajja.