Panic at Dfcu Bank as Sudhir piles pressure on Bank of Uganda   
All is not well with Dfcu Bank. The leading local bank finds itself sailing in troubled waters. This is after city tycoon – Sudhir Ruparelia sued the Bank alongside Bank of Uganda (BoU) for illegally taking over his bank and properties. 
Last month, Through its lawyers Sebalu & Lule Advocates , Meera Investments Ltd, one of the business entities owned by Sudhir Ruparelia sued dfcu Bank, seeking to reclaim leasehold titles and developments for 48 banking halls taken over by the latter when Crane Bank was liquidated. In a suit filed before the High Court Land Division, Meera Investments Ltd contends that it is the rightful owner of the land titles and that their transfer to dfcu Bank should have been effected after its consent. Analysts put it that Sudhir’s strategy is to pile pressure on BoU and Dfcu bank until he breaks their back- whatever that means. - Advertisement - 
On October 25, 2016, BoU took over Crane Bank and suspended all members of its board, saying the then biggest indigenous bank was incurably drained financially and posed a systemic risk to the country’s banking sector. The central bank later sold Crane Bank to dfcu Bank in January 2017. Banking is a risky business, therefore no commercial bank wants to be in court over and again-whilst it loses customer confidence. The Dfcu Bank is listed on the Uganda Securities Exchange and experts confidently say that the continued negative publicity is likely to affect the company’s share price in the long run as the public are not sure of the bank’s future. 
Marie Dutordoir, professor of Finance, drawing from branding theory, hypothesizes that stock price reactions to brand value changes are more positive for firms with high cash flow vulnerability, valuable growth opportunities, and high potential for further product or service price increases. As of Friday 16th March 2018, Dfcu share price was Ugx. 701. Financial experts also agree that the Crane Bank saga is likely to erode customer confidence in dfcu in the long-run. Ugandans have lost money in the recent past when Bank of Uganda closed a host of commercial banks. As a result, Ugandans act fast when they feel the future of their bank is uncertain. This is exactly what happened when the news about Crane Bank closure started making rounds- Ugandans rushed to drain their accounts. 
Analysts say, Dfcu Bank may find itself in a similar situation. The current saga may result in more of her customers reduce [if not completely close their accounts with dfcu] their deposits with DFCU. And when this happens, it will cause liquidity flow issues. Customer deposits are the bank’s main source of money. Banks survive on deposits for daily operations and for lending. Industry experts also point to a possibility of Dfcu bank losing confidence with other banks. Banks survive on interbank borrowing for day to day operations. 
With the ongoing saga, commercial banks may choose to limit or worse still stop credit they extend to DFCU bank for fear of the non-known. When Crane bank troubles worsened, banks closed the dealings with the once mighty local bank that threatened traditional banks. Can DFCU avoid this? 
Stormy board meeting It is understood that DFCU board meetings are always stormy and hot. It is said that the foreign shareholders are questioning how their bank- the leading local bank got involved in Crane Bank- mess. Their argument, dfcu bank was doing well with no need to take on Crane Bank. While Crane Bank deal looked juicy, it was bond to cause issues. 
Unconfirmed sources point to possibility that foreign shareholders were not fully told details of the Crane Bank takeover. Bank of Uganda finds itself in tight corner after ‘losing’ one of the best law firms in the country MMAKS Advocates and AF Mpanga Advocates. Meanwhile Sudhir is using arguably one best law firms in country for this case- Sebalu & Lule Advocates 
read: dfcu Bank; build-up of failed banks? 
Will Dfcu sail through the troubled waters? Will Dfcu MD Juma Kisaame who was at the Centre of deal retain his job? What is best way out, ‘vomit’ Crane Bank? our guess is as good as yours.