March 24, 2018 Former Prime Minister Amama Mbabazi 
Former Prime Minister of Uganda and presidential candidate John Patrick Amama Mbabazi is all smiles after being appointed to the board of trustees of the Brazzaville Foundation. Managed by distinguished and experienced individuals, develops cross-border and regional projects to address key economic and environmental problems. In doing so it aims to promote regional dialogue and peaceful cooperation to the benefit of both people and the environment. The Foundation also seeks to facilitate dialogue and achieve a better understanding between conflicting parties wherever informal diplomacy, bridge-building and discreet, pragmatic engagement offer an alternative way forward. It can do on its own initiative or at the request of the parties to a conflict or at the invitation of regional or multilateral organisations. Amama’s Citation for the new position reads as; Amama Mbabazi is a former Prime Minister of Uganda (2011-14). He studied law at Makerere University and is a lawyer by profession. He played an important role in the resistance to dictatorship in Uganda (1972-86) and was a founding member and later Secretary General of the National Resistance Movement (NRM). He was a member of Parliament for 20 years. Before becoming Prime Minister, he held several Cabinet posts, including Minister of Defence, Minister of Security and Attorney General. As Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, he negotiated the Lusaka Peace Agreement that ended hostilities in the DRC, secured the withdrawal of foreign forces and re-established central government administration. He also represented Uganda in the IGAD mediation in the Sudan conflict. In the 2016 Presidential election, he was the only candidate to criticise discrimination against the LBGT community. Among his many other positions, he was a member of the University Council of the Islamic University of Uganda, a founding member of the Uganda AIDS Commission (1990-1995) and chairman of the Board of Trustees of the Joint Clinical Research Centre which contributed to vaccine development and HIV care. Other individuals on the board include former Nigerian president Olusegun Obasanjo, Kgalema Motalanthe who served as President of South Africa between September 25, 2008 and May 9, 2009. Other distinguished individuals on the board are; are Cecilia Attias, Xavier Guerrand Hermes, Dar Stenback, Philip von und zu Liechtenstein, Dr Mathews Phosa, Dr Jose Ramos Horta, Kabine Komora and Sundeep Waslekar. SHARE