March 24, 2018 Museveni and Kagame at a previous event. 
President Yoweri Museveni and his Rwandan counterpart Paul Kagame will among other issues discuss how to resolve the current political tension between the two countries on Sunday. Kagame arrives in Uganda tomorrow Sunday for a one- day working visit, according to presidential spokesperson Don Wanyama. The meeting will be a follow up on the Addis Ababa meeting of February. There is concern that tensions between the two countries have uncertainty in the region. The high light of the tension between the two countries was the recent failure by president Museveni to join other African Heads of State in Kigali for the signing of the African Continental Free Trade Area (AFCFTA) agreement in Kigali. He was represented by Foreign Minister Sam Kutesa Rwanda accuses Uganda of aiding suspected Rwandan dissidents to move in East Africa, But Uganda denies the accusations. Rwanda last year said Uganda was providing Rwandan dissidents with passports. Some of the dissidents, Kigali said were living in refugee camps in Uganda and belong to a terrorist group-Rwanda National Congress (RNC).The group Rwanda said had intentions to cross from Uganda into Tanzania and eventually end up in DRC. Rwanda also accused Uganda of what it called “Multiple unjustified arrests, failure to notify the Diplomatic representation of Rwanda in Uganda and mistreatment of Rwandan citizens in Uganda in the last several months.” Uganda maintains its operations targeted suspected Rwandan spies harassing Rwandan refugees and threatening national security. Some of the suspected Rwandans have been deported back to Rwanda. The two presidents are expected to identify modalities of ironing out the differences; many analysts say are a hindrance to regional cooperation when you bring in the East African Community bloc to which both countries belong. Museveni and Kagame have a lot in common politically, both leaders having captured the leadership in their countries through guerilla warfare. They would later turn their volatile countries on a democratic path. The two countries are so close that its citizens trade together, not forgetting intermarries between them. Citizens are hopeful that the two leaders will have a solution to the tensions. SHARE