Home / SPORTS / Lingard strike sees new-look England enjoy Dutch friendly success Lingard strike sees new-look England enjoy Dutch friendly success   SPORTS Leave a comment 44 Views 
Amsterdam, Netherlands | AFP | Jesse Lingard scored his first England goal as a reshaped side beat the Netherlands 1-0 in an Amsterdam friendly on Friday. 
This was England’s last away match before they travel to Russia for this year’s World Cup finals and they were rewarded with a well-deserved win against a Dutch side who will be one of the major absentees from the showpiece tournament. 
The result gave England their first win over the Netherlands since manager Gareth Southgate was a member of the side that triumphed 4-1 at Wembley during Euro 96. 
It also condemned Dutch great Ronald Koeman to defeat in his first match as manager of the Oranje. 
— England (@England) March 23, 2018 
Several England players advanced their case for World Cup selection, with just next week’s friendly at home to Italy to come before Southgate picks his squad. 
“It was a good test for us, we came away from home and controlled the game,” Southgate told ITV Sport. 
–‘Delighted for Jesse’– 
Turning to Lingard, he added: “I’m delighted for Jesse, he’s a player we’ve worked with for three or four years from the Under-21s and this year he is starting to finish the chances.” 
Meanwhile former Southampton and Everton manager Koeman said: “Defensively we played quite well, but didn’t create many chances. And we made some mistakes as well.” 
Shortly after England were denied what seemed a clear penalty, Manchester United midfielder Lingard scored the only goal of the game in the 59th minute. First win over the Netherlands for almost 2⃣2⃣ years ☑ 
Starting 2️⃣0️⃣1️⃣8️⃣ right. pic.twitter.com/u68jfvEem3 
— England (@England) March 23, 2018 
It was a goal that had been coming, with England’s midfield starting to find their onrushing forwards with through balls early in the second half. 
England faced early disruption when Liverpool’s Joe Gomez went off injured just minutes into the game, his place taken by Harry Maguire. Share on: