Sunday March 25 2018 A rare day at home over the weekend Moms are innately warm, comforting, nurturing, and even nourishing to their babies. Babies come from mothers. Courtesy photo In Summary Sometimes one’s job dictates that they work evenings and weekends, leaving little room for family except on rare occasions. A day at home after a long absence can be very enlightening, writes Isaac Ssejjombwe. Moms are innately warm, comforting, nurturing, and even nourishing to their babies. Babies come from mothers. Advertisement By Isaac Ssejjombwe 
We are living in a generation where a person has to get at least two days off(Saturday and Sunday) from work apart from the public holidays but being in the media business, that is sometimes impossible because you have to be on the go in case of breaking news. However, it is much more complicated when it comes to entertainment journalism. Most events happen during the weekend and my kind of job requires me to always cover them. 
Being a family man, with a wife and a child, I do not get much time to spend with them apart from public holidays which also do not come often. I only get to play with my daughter when I find her still awake which is also on rare occasions because I get home late or on the weekends, that is only if she wakes up early to find me still at home. Because of my work schedule, my wife even joked that I should not be surprised if my daughter calls me uncle. 
However, I managed to spend the entire weekend at home a few weeks ago. Not that I wanted to but because some weekends are dry (with no big events) and that weekend was one of them. It was as rare for me as it was for my family but it was worth it because I got to see what happens while I am away. 
At home with my girl I woke up a few minutes past 10am with my daughter while my wife was already up by 9am. We had breakfast and a chat with the lady of the house for some minutes. The baby was running in and out of the house. Then my wife decided to run to the market to grab sauce. I was left with the baby. For the two hours we were together, I moved (just around the house) for like five kilometres. She disorganised the ironed clothes, the ones in the laundry basket, the cups, plates in the cupboard, disorganised the books, the newspapers, the cushions, asked for every edible thing in the house. Meanwhile, the mother had instructed me to boil for her an egg, strictly for five minutes, then make her porridge and also make sure she drinks her juice every after 30 minutes. 
That aside, it was in that timeframe that some TV stations were airing a certain documentary that I was dying to see but because of the activities I was involved with, I could not watch it. By the time my wife was back home, I was so tired and frustrated. However, I got to see the life they both live while I am away. The things they do and why my daughter cannot wake up so early. 
On a lighter note, I enjoyed the day with my child and also spent quality time with the people who matter most to me. It also prepared me for the next time she leaves me with the child because I got to know her food, what time to feed her, what she likes and how she plays. 
This is what dads are good for Moms are innately warm, comforting, nurturing, and even nourishing to their babies. Babies come from mothers. 
So what are dads good for? A lot, it turns out, and it goes way beyond just assisting mom. First, we introduce our babies to new and interesting things, starting with ourselves. You will find your baby looking intently at you, checking you out. She is essentially fascinated. And very soon, dad’s presence or even your smell means it is time to play, which according to recent research, is critical to baby brain development. Apparently when we play and roughhouse, that beautiful little mind goes into full gear. 
Research has identified lots of ways our involvement pays off for our children. Greater self control and the ability to take the initiative are the payoff for boys and girls raised with an involved father. A close, warm relationship with our daughters will strengthen their feelings of competence and a sense of femininity. (Ultimately, it is up to us to show them what a good guy is all about.) 
A father’s care and love contributes as much to a child’s intellectual and emotional development as mom’s love does. The love and care of mom and dad have an equal impact on their children’s well-being, happiness, and academic success. In some areas, a father’s impact is greater. A father’s love is the major factor in combating a child’s problems with conduct, delinquency or substance abuse. Adapted from