Style tips for women with ample cleavage STELLA NANTUMBWE, ACTRESS In Summary In style. Choosing a bra can get tricky for women with an ample bust. To avoid tight, ill-fitting bras or the appearance of a chest spilling over, know what suits your bust size and personal style. Bras for a big bust. There are shops that offer bras for women with ample cleavage, for instance, Bra world, a lingerie shop with one of its branches located along Kampala road opposite Fido Fido. Also at PEP between Shs14,000 and Shs25,000. Advertisement 
Women with ample cleavage (fairly large breasts) at times find it difficult to find clothes that suit their particular body types. It is for this reason that they may sometimes fall victim to fashion blunders, for instance, wearing the wrong bra sizes and the breasts end up spilling out of an outfit. One wonders then, what should a woman with an ample bust wear? 
We caught up with Stella Nantumbwe, Miss Uganda 2013/14, a woman never shy to talk about her cleavage. Nantumbwe, who doubles as an actress and make-up artist gives us a sneak peek into her wardrobe and her outfit choices for her body type. 
To buy... Bras for a big bust. There are shops that offer bras for women with ample cleavage, for instance, Bra world, a lingerie shop with one of its branches located along Kampala road opposite Fido Fido. Also at PEP between Shs14,000 and Shs25,000. 
Nantumbwe on what bras she can or cannot wear My bra choice and advice I wear mostly padded bras also known as pushup bras as they give me a better look in the outfits. However, it is important for women to get the right size. I buy mine from Victoria’s Secrets, an American retail manufacturer of women’s lingerie whenever I travel. (In Uganda, there are a few lingerie shops that offer bras for women with ample cleavage, for instance, Bra world, a lingerie shop with one of its branches on Kampala road opposite Fido Fido). 
Wrap dresses are also flattering for women of all sizes including those with ample breasts. I detest strapless bras because they do not look good on me. Also, I never look good in clothes with high necklines. 
"I detest strapless bras. They do not look good on me,” STELLA NANTUMBWE, ACTRESS advertisement