I caught my girlfriend in bed with another guy Gibs Godfrey Lule, a radio personality. Courtesy photo In Summary Gibs Godfrey Lule hosts the Sunday Live show on Record FM from 3pm to 7pm. By Godfrey Lugaaju. Advertisement By Godfrey Lugaaju 
Tell us about yourself and what you do I am Gibs Godfrey Lule, a radio personality, marketer and voice-over artist. I am a down-to- earth father of one, who loves sharing and caring. I have been in the industry for the last five years working in Southern, North, Eastern and Central Uganda. 
What do you like most about your job? This job needs creativity and in my life, I like being creative and thinking hard as well as being free; no stressing. I also get to meet big people with whom I establish long lasting relationships. 
Do you have a personal life? I do and I love watching football and hanging out with friends (I do not do booze. I like my coffee). I also do simple gardening at home. 
Is your private life affected by your work as a radio anchor? I am a shy guy and I do not want to be known. If someone notices me when I am hanging out, I feel psychologically tortured. At times, I also find myself mentioning a radio frequency when I am voicing an ad somewhere. 
How do you juggle your personal life and work? I plan and I have a schedule so that I perform to my fullest. When on radio, it is purely business and when I am off air, I package myself with utmost humility to fit in the public eye. Although it is a bit tricky, you always find a way of handling it. 
What excites you? Every time I call my mum and she tells me she is fine, it makes my day. My mother is my mentor. She groomed me into the person I am today. 
What do you frown upon? Having to explain myself to a fool is a waste of time. I also hate women who cheat in relationships. Have you ever encountered this? Yes, once I found my girlfriend in bed with another guy. I had gone on a trip to Rwanda and I did not complete my one-week stay there. I came back in three days and found the two in bed at 1am. I wanted to stab them but I pulled myself together and walked away. 
Are you married? I am single and contented. 
Is it because of your past experience? Yes, I have still failed to trust people again. I trust myself instead. It will take me some time before I commit to someone again. Describe your ideal woman Hardworking, caring and open-minded. I love people who speak the truth. 
What is your definition of love? To me love is companionship. It is between two people; what hurts you affects me too. Some people believe love is sex but I believe it is understanding someone’s heart and believing in them.Any particular female celebrity you crush on?Lydia Jazmine. I love her smile, expression, her songs and vocals. 
What is your day like? I wake up at 6:00am, say a prayer before showering and taking a cup of milk. I then report for duty, open my emails and check my diary in case of any work to be done. How do you draw a line between the Gibs on air and the Gibs off air? The Gibs on air is an energetic person because of the energy levels in the studio on the other hand, the Gibs off air is a humble, shy and cool person. The two are not friends. 
ABOUT GIBS LULE Where did you attend school? I went to Mbuya Army School for my Primary level, Mukono Town Academy for my O-Level and 3Rs secondary School for my A-Level. I later joined Kampala University for my Degree in Journalism. I also did a certificate in Community Journalism at Leeds University by correspondence. advertisement