Kagame –Museveni meeting in Entebbe tomorrow seeks to find a solution to the tensions between 02 countries-Mwenda March 24, 2018 - Advertisement - 
President Paul Kagame will have a one day working visit to Uganda for a meeting with President Museveni in Entebbe tomorrow, Sunday March 25, 2018. ‘’It will be a follow up on the Addis Ababa meeting of February. The aim is to find a solution to the tensions between the two countries.’’ Andrew Mwenda tweeted on Saturday. 
Mwenda recently urged in the article published in the Independent Magazine that the primary reason for firing Kayihura was shifting geopolitical position of Uganda in her relationship with Rwanda. titled ‘Why the firing of the IGP has more to do with Kampala-Kigali relations than crime in Uganda’, Andrew Mwenda argues that “more than anyone else”, Kayihura – during his reign– fought zealously to defend Museveni’s job, and by extension keeping NRM as the ruling party. - Advertisement - 
‘‘When the feud between Kampala and Kigali began, Kayihura confided in friends that when Uganda and Rwanda fight, he pays the price. Being an ethnic Munyarwanda, the Ugandan side accuse him of being a mole while the Rwandan side see him as a traitor. A reliable source told me that Museveni was “convinced” by other intelligence organisations that Kayihura allowed Rwanda to use Uganda Police to conduct their operations inside this country. In exchange, it was alleged that Rwanda was helping him use police to build a political base for his presidential ambitions.’’ Mwenda wrote Early this week, President Museveni unexpectedly cancelled his planned visit to Rwanda for the Africa-wide free trade deal – known as the African Continental Free Trade Area Treaty. It remains unclear why President Museveni decided to cancel the trip. BBC reported that Mr Museveni’s move suggests deteriorating relations between Kigali and Kampala. 
According to the Daily Monitor, President Museveni cancelled his trip to Kigali after his advance security team and the Rwandan security failed to work out his itinerary. ‘’ The advance teams of other presidents, except the Ugandan team, had by end of last week known where their presidents would stay and which routes or vehicles they would use to the summit venue, except the Ugandan team. The sources said whenever the Ugandan team would ask their Rwandan counterparts to meet for discussion on arrangements for President Museveni’s visit, they would be told no such meetings were taking place. The Ugandan team’s patience was fast running out and on Saturday, they communicated back to Kampala that there was no cooperation with the Rwandan security establishment. A decision was subsequently taken to cancel the trip to Kigali. The Ugandan advance team left Rwanda on Sunday’’ the paper reported. 
Rwanda accuses Uganda of illegally detaining its citizens and helping groups fighting its government, while Kampala accuses some Rwandans of espionage. President Museveni had confirmed his attendance at African Union Extraordinary Summit on the African Continental Free Trade Area set for 21 March 2018. Rwanda’s Foreign Affairs Minister Louise Mushikiwabo recently made controversial remarks about Uganda during a recent press conference in Kigali. Mushikiwabo, who called a press briefing to discuss the anticipated African leaders’ summit in Kigali, accused Uganda of mistreating Rwandans. 
“When something like this happens to countries, we try to talk as leaders to resolve these issues. President [Paul] Kagame met his Ugandan counterpart [Yoweri Museveni] in Ethiopia on the sidelines of the African Union summit and discussed the issues. What we want is to see these issues resolved because there no reasons Rwandans should continue to be mistreated as we have seen in Uganda,” Ms Mushikiwabo Mushikiwabo was quoted by Rwanda media 
Kigali has previously accused Kampala of illegal detention and torture of its citizens and harboring dissents intent on destabilizing Rwanda. Uganda, however, says those arrested were suspected of being spies and harassing Rwandan refugees. 
Sources say Uganda was shocked to see Mushikiwabo remarks on Uganda. But both Kampala and Kigali have denied bad blood between two countries. They insist they are doing everything in their means to strengthen their bilateral ties. - Advertisement -