Sunday March 25 2018 Uganda Cranes’ hybrid hunt yet to find ‘real diamond’ Kitamirike (background) was the first-ever hybrid to be summoned by Fufa whereas Mugabi is the latest. PHOTOS BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary The blueprint of using services of those either born or bred abroad was adopted by many including Gabon whose star player Aubameyang was born in France. Success remains elusive but the method is proven to work. Ugandan born. Ibra Sekajja has been capped by England at U-16 level. In August 2013, he was called up but never got play. Advertisement By ISMAIL DHAKABA KIGONGO 
KAMPALA. One of the several stories behind the success of Senegal’s golden generation was how their coach Bruno Metsu (RIP) went around Europe hunting some of their best players.Metsu, who died of cancer in 2013 at the age of 59, sat down with so many of the players of Senegalese heritage, convincing them to play for the Lions’ of Teranga. In the end, the Frenchman’s side, with 21 of the 23 players playing for French clubs, reached the last eight of the 2002 World Cup and lost in the finals at the Africa Cup of Nations that same year. This blueprint has been adopted by many including Gabon whose star player Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was born in France. Success remains elusive but the method is proven to work. Archaic Uganda were left out for a very long time due to an archaic dual citizenship law. The law was only amended in 2009. This week, English-born defender Bevis Mugabi, 22, took that path, choosing to play for Uganda Cranes who hosted Sao Tome and Principe and Malawi in international friendlies at Namboole yesterday and Tuesday respectively.“I think when I got my previous call ups I was fairly young at the time but now I’m like 22 and I’m a bit more mature with my build and the way I play so I feel it is the right to accept the call and come to Uganda,” said Southampton-bred Mugabi.“I know a little bit about Uganda but I still got a lot more things to learn but that’s why I’m here to keep learning and educating myself so hopefully that will come in the next few days I’m here.” 
Joel Kitamirike Born in Uganda, Kitamirike moved to England as a child becoming a British citizen. He was the first hybrid to be summoned back in 2004, when Mike Mutebi was head coach, while still at Chelsea. When he came, an open training session at Nakivubo filled up but Kitamirike didn’t renounce his British citizenship. His career has taken a downward spiral since. Fabian Kizito Not much had been heard of the Netherlands-bred footballer until coach Bobby Williamson named him in his squad early 2012. Kizito scored on his debut a 2-1 friendly defeat. He then made the bench for the opening match of the 2014 World Cup qualifiers, a 1-1 draw away to Angola June of the same year. He was never recalled. Martin Kayongo Mutumba After impressing for AIK Stockholm, Mutumba joined Uganda Cranes from his Swedish side in 2014, debuting in the 2014 World Cup 1-1 away qualifier against Angola. His home debut was against Senegal in the same campaign and it was his only start for Uganda. Mutumba had a bad game. Mutumba later come off the bench against Liberia, Angola and finally away in Morocco against Senegal in 2013, where he played the last nine minutes. He was never summoned, again. Savio Nsereko The mutual admiration between Nsereko and Uganda never materialised as his life on and off the pitch spiraled out of control. Nsereko was a one-time sparkle of the German U-20 side, a contemporary to Arsenal’s Mesut Ozil. 
Ronald MukiibiSwedish based defender Ronald Mukiibi reported to camp during preparations for the the 2017 Africa Cup of Nations. Nothing has been said about him since being overlooked for the final tournament in Gabon despite his club Ostersunds reaching the last 64 of the Uefa Europa League, losing to Arsenal. Melyvn Lorenzen Lorenzen was born in London, England to an Ugandan father and a German mother. His surname comes from his mother.His father is called Drake Mugisa. In 2016, he was called up to the Ugandan national team, and made his debut in a friendly 2–0 loss to Zimbabwe in May, 2016. He hasn’t been called since over ticket class ping-pong with Fufa. 
Jjunju & Kakeeto British born Isaac Layne Jjunju and Danish based Robert Kakeeto joined coach Micho Sredojevic’s side featuring in a Cranes’ regional tour game in Fort Portal last year.Jjunju plays for Grays Athletic in the Scottish Championship and was born in in England to Ugandan parents 22 years ago. Kakeeto features for Aalborg in Denmark. Neither has been here since June. 
The rest Ugandans, especially those on social media and regular contributors to sports shows both on radio and television, are fond of coming with all kinds of players that should be summoned to the Cranes.They are keen to follow up on Ugandan names in European leagues. England-based Moses Jjunju was called up by Laszlo Csaba who also had Joseph Kanyike from Dutch third division side Doskampe in 2008.Ibra Sekajja, born here 25 years ago, hasn’t played for Uganda yet. His flirt started in 2011 while he was at Crystal Palace. 
Sekajja has been capped by England at U-16 level. In August 2013, he was called up to the Uganda Cranes squad for a friendly against Egypt. He did not play as he had yet to receive his Ugandan passport.The conveyor belt still 22-year old Isak Ssali Ssewankambo to fork out. He is currently in Sweden playing for Malmö FF. While at Chelsea, he scored the winner in an FA Youth Cup final in 2014. 
ikigongo@ug.nationmedia.com