Sunday March 25 2018 Education ministry approves sexuality education framework There has been a fierce debate between proponents of sexual education in schools and those against it, as well as arguments and counter arguments on the definition of appropriate sexual education. FILE PHOTO In Summary Mr Issa Buka Nsubuga, a programs manager of Reach a hand Uganda, a youth centered organization focusing on youth empowerment programs including sexual reproductive health and rights said the policy will garner support because it has been developed after systematic research and consultation. He argued that sexuality education is community responsibility that should attract support of families' heads, schools, traditional and religious leaders as well as government support. Advertisement By Agencies 
Ministry of Education and Sports has approved a national sexuality education framework, which is expected to be unveiled next month. 
Mr Muhammad Kasule, the Technical Advisor on HIV/AIDS in the Education Ministry revealed this during the Inter-generational Dialogue on Sexuality held in Bugolobi yesterday.He described the framework as cultural, religious sensitive and age appropriate. 
Mr Kasule said the framework has been developed over the last two years through consultations with stakeholders. He said the new framework will not attract opposition from cultural, religious and political institutions. 
Sexuality education has been a controversial issue in Uganda over the past years. In 2016, Ministry of Gender, Labour and Social development banned comprehensive sexuality education in schools.The ministry's ban came after the discovery of sexual reproductive health books in more than 100 schools that included "sexual orientation and a non-negative portrayal of masturbation." 
The ban was buttressed by Parliament with legislators unanimously passing a resolution to ban comprehensive sexuality education. Legislators called upon the president to come out and speak against sexuality education. 
There has been a fierce debate between proponents of sexual education in schools and those against it, as well as arguments and counter arguments on the definition of appropriate sexual education. 
Mr Kasule described the sexuality education framework as a key milestone for the ministry of education. The framework, he said will be a blueprint in guiding teaching of sexuality education in schools. 
Mr Kasule said the framework has clustered learners in groups. For instance, he said what will be taught to primary school pupils is different from what will be taught to secondary school as well as university students. 
Mr Kasule further revealed that the ministry has integrated sexuality education in the sector investment plan meaning that it will attract more funding in the coming years. 
Mr Issa Buka Nsubuga, a programs manager of Reach a hand Uganda, a youth centered organization focusing on youth empowerment programs including sexual reproductive health and rights said the policy will garner support because it has been developed after systematic research and consultation. 
He argued that sexuality education is community responsibility that should attract support of families' heads, schools, traditional and religious leaders as well as government support. advertisement