Maj Gen Elwelu praises Brig Sabiiti for being loyal officer, defeating hooligans like Kitatta March 25, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Brig Muzeeyi Sabiiti has handed over command of Military Police to Col William Bainomugisha in order to fully concentrate on his new assignment as the Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIGP). 
The function that took place on Saturday at the Makindye-based Military Police barracks was presided over by the UPDF Commander Land Forces (CLF), Maj Gen Peter Elwelu . In his remarks, Maj Gen Peter Elwelu, congratulated Brig Sabiiti and Col Bainomugisha upon their new appointments and applauded them for being dedicated and loyal senior officers of the UPDF. Elwelu said in the past few years, Kampala had been taken over by hooligans but applauded him for cracking the whip on them. - Advertisement - 
“Thank you for handling hooligans like Kitatta who made the city chaotic,” Elwelu said. Elwelu said that Kampala being the face of the country, many people would want to take the opportunity to destabilise it but this has not been possible during the tenure of Brig. Sabiiti. “Thank you for defeating hooliganism .Kampala is the face of the country and should be for everyone to enjoy. We thank you for the good service and working with police .No wonder you are now going to police,” Elwelu said. 
He also hailed Brig Sabiiti for re-organizing Military Police in a short time, promoting the spirit of team work within the force and making Uganda peaceful despite the emerging new challenges. “Keep up the spirit of working with others to achieve national objectives,” Maj Gen Elwelu told Brig Sabiiti; adding that humility, commitment and team spirit will make Uganda peaceful and stable. 
Brig Sabiiti, lauded the President of the Republic of Uganda and Commander-in –Chief of UPDF Gen Museveni together with the UPDF leadership for recognizing his contribution to the security of the country which is epitomized by his new appointment to a new area of responsibility. 
Brig Sabiiti commended the local community for their joint efforts with Military Police to neutralize crime in Kampala, saying that teamwork, joint security operations, and cooperation with other key stakeholders in the field of development explain his credibility. The new Commandant Military Police, Col William Bainomugisha, commended the UPDF leadership for his new task as a Red Top Commander; adding that discipline, team work, physical fitness, and time management, among others, will define his leadership at Military Police. - Advertisement -