IGG threatens to arrest Mutebile The Inspector General of Government (IGG), Ms Irene Mulyagonja. FILE PHOTO In Summary Appearing on KFM radio’s talk show VPN on Saturday morning, Ms Mulyagonja said she is carrying on with investigations into the alleged “unfair” staff transfers in BoU and that Mr Mutebile, an economist, should not take over the role of interpreting the law from her, “one of the custodians of the law”. When asked whether Governor Mutebile would be arrested if he ignores summons issued to him, Ms Mulyagonja said: “I don’t think he is above the law... but when we are investigating, we don’t start with him.” Advertisement By ANTHONY WESAKA 
The Inspector General of Government (IGG), Ms Irene Mulyagonja, has warned that should any official of Bank of Uganda decline to respond to her summons, an arrest warrant could be issued against that person. 
Appearing on KFM radio’s talk show VPN on Saturday morning, Ms Mulyagonja said she is carrying on with investigations into the alleged “unfair” staff transfers in BoU and that Mr Mutebile, an economist, should not take over the role of interpreting the law from her, “one of the custodians of the law”. 
Warning “We expect compliance and there is no reason for not complying (when summoned). We have other means that we can use to bring people to give evidence. If I issue summons under the Inspectorate Act and there is no reason for not respecting it, the next thing we issue is a warrant (of arrest). You know what a warrant is; it means, go and bring someone to such and such a place for them to do one, two, three things,” Ms Mulyagonja said on KFM. When asked whether Governor Mutebile would be arrested if he ignores summons issued to him, Ms Mulyagonja said: “I don’t think he is above the law... but when we are investigating, we don’t start with him.”She said the investigations will be done and a report issued within one or two months. 
THE FALLOUT The issue. Ms Mulyagonja’s fallout with Mr Mutebile started about a month ago when the Governor reshuffled staff in BoU and hired some new ones, leading to a complaint to the IGG about procedure. 
Changes. The IGG asked Mr Mutebile to respond to the accusations and after receiving the response, she directed that he stays the changes until investigations are complete. His response. Mr Mutebile, in response, told the IGG about the independence of BoU and said the IGG has no legal mandate to direct the bank. advertisement