Sunday March 25 2018 Ssenabulya conquers Kampala Hills in NSSF Run Martin Ssenabulya timed 1:18.26 which was slower than his time of 1:16 last year. Courtesy photo In Summary The fourth edition of the run organised by NSSF in partnership with Kampala Hash House Harriers attracted over 15000 runners with an aim of raising Shs400m towards improving learning conditions of children in KCCA-run schools. NSSF Managing Director, Richard Byarugaba, said that the Fund chose to support KCCA because of the appalling conditions at most of their schools. Advertisement By George Katongole & Darren Kyeyune 
KAMPALA. Martin Ssenabulya, an upcoming distance runner with Uganda Prisons, required three years of trying before his championship day was ready to be celebrated. 
Having emerged second in the previous two runs of the energy sapping 21-km NSSF Kampala Hash Seven Hills Run, Ssenabulya rallied on the absence of last year's winner Oscar Niyozima, for a victory worth savouring, finishing two minutes ahead of the second-placed Dickson Waiswa. 
Ssenabulya timed 1:18.26 which was slower than his time of 1:16 last year. 
"It feels great. Running is my source of income but even if here I don’t win cash prizes I am happy that I have contributed towards the improvement of schools in Kampala," he said. 
Bryony Willmott, an economist with the East African Development Bank was the women's winner finishing 10th overall with a time of 1:29:03 while last year’s silver medallist Phylis Tsang emerged second again but 33rd overall. 
The run started and finished at Pearl Africa Primary School, Nsambya and saw participants traversing the historical seven hills of Kampala – Nakasero, Kibuli, Old Kampala, Namirembe, Rubaga, Lubiri and Nsambya. 
The fourth edition of the run organised by NSSF in partnership with Kampala Hash House Harriers attracted over 15000 runners with an aim of raising Shs400m towards improving learning conditions of children in KCCA-run schools. 
NSSF Managing Director, Richard Byarugaba, said that the Fund chose to support KCCA because of the appalling conditions at most of their schools. 
“NSSF and partners have supported this run and progressively we will improve learning conditions in public schools. With this year’s proceeds, more schools will be renovated,” he said. 
The runners were drawn from 33 corporate companies including winners Citibank, Mukwano, Daily Monitor and Cooper Motors among others. 
According to KCCA Executive Director Jennifer Musisi, 90% of the 79 government aided schools under their custody need refurbishment among other needs. 
Last year, Shs131m was used to renovate Busega PS, Summit View Army PS and Makerere University PS. 
"Together we are investing in the future of our children," Musisi said before revealing that this year's proceeds will go towards renovations at Mbuya COU and St Paul, Nsambya. NSSF Hash Seven Hills Run winners Men: