Vocational training, skilling creates new face of Kyotera NRM district party headquarters Students of metal work and metal fabrication. Photos by Ivan Kimbowa In Summary Pamela Watuwa, the Residential District Commissioner says this could be the first of its kind of initiative in the country which many well positioned Ugandans should emulate and use it to uplift their communities. Advertisement By Ivan Kimbowa 
Standing outside the main gate of the ruling National Resistance Movement (NRM) headquarters in the new district of Kyotera, one contemplates only party business to be taking place inside. However, it contradicts your mind after entering only to see several groups of youths receiving training in various business aspects of life.On the right hand side of the compound from the gate, there is a temporary block serving as the main hall capacitating more than 70 people and on the opposite side is reserved as a parking yard. 
Besides the main block which accommodates various offices, there are two nice looking saloons of men and women where over 30 youths are trained different styles of haircuts and hair dressing. Close to them, is a tailoring training centre of 18 students where each has access to a sewing machine.At the left side of the main block, you find a shelter divided into three; its first section occupied by 24 students training in motorcycle repair and maintenance, in the middle section are 20 students of metal work and fabrication and the last section occupied by 8 students training in carpentry. 
The district NRM party Chairperson Haruna Kyeyune Kasolo designed the project after his name “Kasolo Foundation” following public outcry of an increasing level of youth employment in Kyotera.“The idea to come up with the foundation originates from the optical success from the few youths I managed to lobby for scholarships in vocation institute; to increase on the number of beneficiaries, we had to set up our own study centre,” he explains. 
Mr Kasolo says he sought permission from the party leaders to utilize the place in the most developmental way, financed the setup of other additional temporary structures to accommodate various youth groups who need skills in different aspects, as well as equipping residents with skills in financial management.Allan Tendo, the Kasolo Foundation programmes coordinator says their major goal is creating conducive environment and sustainability in the rural communities through empowering unemployed youths with vocational skills mainly those who dropped out of school following various inevitable conditions and challenges. 
Female students in a class of hair dressing. 
“We are enrolling and offering a free training of three months to the youths regardless of their academic background. The foundation also ensures discipline through counseling and guidance classes, book keeping, customer care and marketing skills every Wednesday; skilling minus offering holistic standards impact less development in the society,” Mr Tendo adds. 
He further notes that the Foundation has also put in place 10 University bursaries to be given out to the highly performed students from the needy families in Kyotera district; it is also setting up two more training centres at Kabira Sub County and Kalisizo town council to help students who cannot afford daily transport fares to the party headquarters. Passy Nakanwagi, a student of tailoring at Kasolo Foundation dropped out of school at ordinary level since her parents could not afford fees at High School or any institution. She says her hopes of becoming an accountant had been shuttered until she was selected among the first beneficiaries of the project. 
“I no longer regret becoming an accountant trainee and the skills I am getting here have given me a new beginning and hope in life,” She says.Hamuza Lukyamuzi, who is a primary three drop out also prides himself in the skills he has gained in motorcycle repair and maintenance. He’s focused on mastering all the skills to compete with University graduates.Like the rest of the students, Lukyamuzi pays much attention to the instructions and tutorials to score beyond the pass mark so as to receive a tool box at the end of his course. “I am never interrupted by anything like hunger since we are given free breakfast and lunch in plenty,” he boasts. 
Mr Tendo confirms that they are set to offer free tool boxes, sewing machines, and other necessary start up materials at the end of these training in support of their students to implement the attained skills.Pamela Watuwa, the Residential District Commissioner says this could be the first of its kind of initiative in the country which many well positioned Ugandans should emulate and use it to uplift their communities. 
She adds that the base upon which this foundation has been set gives a clear perspective of swift development, idleness and unemployment reduction. advertisement