Sunday March 25 2018 How gospel music revived orphans' hope in life On a chilly Saturday evening, I find Naluyange and her colleagues drenched with sweat in Bunamwaya after a long music practice, preparing for the next Sunday church service. PHOTO BY AMOS NGWOMOYA In Summary Samuel Kisakye, 12, who is currently in primary four at Mother Care Primary School and a beneficiary of the Sanyuka ministries, said that he wants to become a pastor when after school so that he starts preaching to the needy whom he said, lack spiritual comfort. Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA 
KAMPALA. Vicky Naluyange, 15, was orphaned at a tender age, and so she didn’t have an opportunity to see her parents. 
However, the senior one student at Mengo Secondary School now has no regrets because of the gospel music, which she says, has seen her keep going higher. 
On a chilly Saturday evening, I find Naluyange and her colleagues drenched with sweat in Bunamwaya after a long music practice, preparing for the next Sunday church service. 
Naluyange and her fellow teenagers, belong to Sanyuka choir of Sanyuka Child care ministries, a Christian-based orphanage. 
The choir, the teenagers say, has given them a kiss of life because they have since forgotten about the stormy waters which they sailed through from the time their parents passed. 
They also pride themselves in having a descent home in Bunamwaya from where they do their practice every weekend. 
The joy and the talent they exude while dancing to the thunderous drums and other musical instruments, leaves every guest elated. 
“Through gospel music, I am able to communicate to the lord who is the custodian of my life. The music we do as a group also helps me forget about my past and concentrate on the future because music speaks to the soul.” Naluyange told Daily Monitor. She aspires to become a lawyer and also do music. 
Founded in 2008 by Mr Allan Kizito, the NGO caters for the needy children by giving them education and building them spiritually upright. 
Ms Winfred Kasanza, 30, the programmes manager, Sanyuka child care ministries told Daily Monitor in an interview that the NGO’s major objective is to empower the orphans by giving them education so that they can also empower other needy children in the country. 
“Our target is children, like orphans whose past has been characterized with suffering and isolation. When they get here, we ensure that their talent is nurtured through gospel music, dance and drama. We also pay for them school fees from Nursery to either tertiary institutions or Universities,” she said. 
Asked about how they get these teenagers, Ms Kansaza revealed that some of the children are got on recommendation by either the churches or local council chairpersons.Out of the 50 children, Ms Kansaza said, 14 are in different boarding schools while the 36 are day scholars. 
Some of them stay with their guardians but are paid for school fees by Sanyuka ministries while the others reside at their Bunamwaya offices. 
“We enroll them into music because it helps them socialize with friends and it also helps them to emotionally and psychologically grow. Music is a therapy to a broken soul and we believe that by doing this, they forget about their problems,” she said. 
Asked about how the idea to start of a Christian orphanage was hatched, Ms Kasanza said that Mr Kizito, who is currently living abroad but a main funder of this vulnerable group, wanted to establish an organization to cater for the needy especially the orphans because he was an orphan too. 
Although Sanyuka ministries would want to accommodate more needy children, Ms Kansaza said they are constrained by lack of enough funds. However, their music and drama is for free and they pray from different churches in Kampala hence spreading the gospel through their art. 
Samuel Kisakye, 12, who is currently in primary four at Mother Care Primary School and a beneficiary of the Sanyuka ministries, said that he wants to become a pastor when after school so that he starts preaching to the needy whom he said, lack spiritual comfort. 
“By the time I was brought to this place, I wasn’t sure of my future because I don’t know any of my parents, relatives or guardians. But ever since I reached here, I have got a sense of belonging because whenever I see my fellow orphans, I breathe a sigh of relief, and I am at least in school. I strive to become a pastor as a way of thanking God for bringing me this far,” he said as he broke down. 
Mr William Kiwanuka, the trainer of Sanyuka choir said that he is inspired by the poor background of the orphans to help them exploit their talents so that they can use it to fight stigma faced by many needy children in the country. 
“As a trainer, it motivates me to see that the children who joined the choir without any skill, can now be able to put up a beautiful performance. I think people out there should never despise the needy especially children but help them out in case they have any means,” he said. 
According to Ms Kansaza, pioneer of the Sanyuka child care ministries, Ms Harriet Nankabirwa has since completed her vocational course. angwomoya@ug.nationmedia.com