Museveni, Kagame agree to ‘talk more’, deny any conflict between Uganda and Rwanda   
President Museveni and his Rwandan counterpart, Paul Kagame have denied any conflict between Uganda and Rwanda, despite a few issues which he said would be resolved through established diplomatic mechanisms and regular communication. 
President Museveni revealed that, there is no fundamental problem between Rwanda and Uganda. Adding that a number of incidents that are being commented about in the media, many would be properly addressed if only there was better communication. ‘ ‘We have phones, we should talk more.’’ - Advertisement - 
read: Kagame –Museveni meeting in Entebbe tomorrow seeks to find a solution to the tensions between 02 countries-Mwenda 
This was disclosed in at a joint press conference with Rwandan President Paul Kagame at State House Entebbe. President Kagame revealed that ‘ ‘with great satisfaction that we were able to agree on a number of important things for the benefit of our countries and region. Better communication, working together more deeply and sharing facts regularly will allow us to take better decisions.’’ 
The two countries’ ties have been strained for almost two years now over unfulfilled promises in the implementation of joint infrastructure projects, allegations of espionage and movement of Rwandan dissidents in the region. On claims of unfair treatment of Ugandan nationals in Rwanda: President Kagame said that many things are said, ‘‘sometimes out of context. We have agreed that relevant institutions on both sides should swiftly get together and get to the bottom of each specific allegation.’’ 
President Museveni admitted that some of Rwanda’s complaints were legitimate. He cited the incident where Rwandans were arrested as they travelled to Burundi. He said the suspects claimed they were set to attend a “religious” activity which was not the case. On his part, Kagame reechoed calls to deepen cooperation in areas of security, foreign affairs and economic development to strengthen bilateral ties. 
earlier president museveni said they discussed many things ranging from Infrastructure, transportation, economy and security were discussed, and ‘‘we have agreed 100% on all aspects” he said. - Advertisement -