Are we headed for a financial crisis? 08 out 24 banks said to be in ‘Red’ March 25, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Are we headed for a financial crisis? Available information reveals that eight out of the 24 commercial banks in Uganda are either undercapitalized or not making any profits, with no realistic prospects in the future. Read on. Cairo International Bank (CIB) 
The Bank’s board chaired by Justice Rtd Lameck Nsubuga Mukasa have more homework to do. The bank is yet to recover from the tainted pension scam of 2012. The scam is said to have had adverse impact on the bank’s operations. Highly placed sources at CIB told Newz Post that the bank is sailing in the ‘red sea’. This was confirmed by a knowledgeable source at Bank of Uganda. - Advertisement - 
The struggling bank is also said to be failing to get new board chairman after the term of Rtd Lameck Mukasa expired or about to expire. Potential replacements have turned down the offers after being tipped about the bank’s operations by staff of the bank. 
Bank of India (BOI) Once praised having made significant profits in the in the first year of operation in Uganda, BOI is said to be in its final days in Uganda. The bank is said to be ‘‘under-capitalized’’ Recently, the bank was in the news for the bad reasons. The parent company in India has already indicated to BoU of plans to close operations in Uganda. “Due to restructuring and recapitalization and improving on return on assets in Bank of India, we have decided that with effect from end of March 31, 2018to end business at Bank of India Uganda,” PML Daily reported. 
Bank of India in India was reportedly placed under Prompt Corrective Action Framework due to bad asset quality performance and that the owners now want to have the assets in Bank of India Uganda taken to recover. While BoU has denied closure of the bank, sources at BoU confirmed to us that indeed BOI may not go beyond March, adding that BoU is just trying to buy time as it has done before. The bank’s main clientele are Indians in Uganda. However, this market is already taken by other established banks with links to India or Indians; Diamond Trust Bank, Bank of Baroda and Orient Bank. 
United Bank of Africa (UBA) The West African bank is said to have experienced the highest staff turnover in Uganda’s banking industry. Since launching in Uganda eight years ago, the bank has changed over six managing directors and their assistants. Almost every year, sees a new managing director at UBA Uganda. This is not good for business not even a love- relationship. Banking in Uganda requires good learning curve. After seven years of posting loses, 2016 financial year, UBA managed to post only Ugx. 7billion. inside sources told Newz Post that 2017 was such a tough year for the bank. 
Guaranty Trust Bank -GT Bank GTB which joined West African peers UBA and EcoBank in Uganda in 2014 after taking over struggling FINA bank is not doing any better. GTB, a highly respected African Bank, with business operations in Cote D’Ivoire, Gambia, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and the United Kingdom, the bank has failed to catch the eyes of Ugandans. Bank’s model has completely failed in Uganda. 
Reliable sources at Bank of Uganda told Newz Post that the bank is not well capitalized and could be on BoU’s watch list. On paper, the bank focuses on SME’s. However, the bank’s branch location and approach says otherwise. The bank’s presence is not felt in the market. Newz Post visited a couple of the Bank’s branches including Kira Road (Main branch) – there was no serious business in the banking hall. 
EcoBank Ecobank, which boasts of more than ten branches with headquarters in West Africa has according to analysts failed to fit in and hardly making any profits in Uganda. The bank is said to have experienced challenges operating in the local market, and appears to lack a consistent strategy and market niche. The bank whose niche market is said to be SME’s has in recent past tried to come up with innovations, however, the market is hardly aware of these innovations- a case of poor marketing. A few years ago, the bank attempted to acquire NC bank to consolidate her books, however, the plans hit a dead end. 
Just like UBA, the bank’s top honcho have been unstable with several changes in the senior positions – -a sign of disorganization. The bank has consistently posted losses since it launched in Uganda seven years ago. It remains to be seen whether the shareholders will continue to pump in money year in year out in bank whose future is not promising. The bank after seven years of losing making, broke even in 2016. The bank recorded a net profit after tax of Ugx 813 million in 2016 in contrast to a loss of Ugx754 million posted in 2015. the bank continues to suffer with huge non-performing loans and big margins on bad debts written off. At the end of 2014, bad debts written off at the bank amounted to Ugx7.8bn. Similarly, bad debts written off in 2016 grew from Ugx1.9 in 2015 to Ugx7bn; an indication of a bad clientele base 
ABC bank The half Indian, half Ugandan model of operations has failed to give the bank headway. ABC Bank (Uganda), whose full name is ABC Capital Bank Uganda Limited, With two branches, the bank is said to be struggling and undercapitalized. The shareholders in Kenya have for the last two years tried to find a buyer with little success. According to a senior officer at ABC bank, ‘‘the bank’s balance sheet are too small to attract a serious buyer’’. 
Exim Bank Exim Bank (Tanzania), and trading in Uganda as Exim Bank Uganda, took over struggling Imperial Bank in March 2016. Just like Imperial Bank, the bank is said to be finding it difficult operate in Uganda. Analysts predict the bank is among those lined up for merger or closure sooner than later. The challenge of new bank is that it has to attract new customers from existing banks, given the high costs of shifting and low trust in new banks, it becomes difficult to get serious, profitable corporate business clients. Banking is a relationship business- when you get used to given bank, it becomes next to impossible to switch. And in most cases, the new banks do offer any unique offers. 
Bank of Africa A member of the Bank of Africa Group, a multinational, Pan African bank headquartered in Bamako, Mali, with presence in fourteen African countries, Bank of Africa Uganda has failed to find a winning strategy. The bank according to analysts has failed to find niche, the bank, according to analysts is trying to be everywhere and in the process they are nowhere. The bank recently campaign to reactive dormant account, without much success. Bank of Africa Kenya Limited is the majority shareholder with a 52.72% stake, Africa Financial Holdings – Indian Ocean of Mauritius has a 23.70% shareholding, Netherlands Development Finance Company – FMO, controls a 15.1% stake, while Central Holdings Uganda Limited has a 8.57%. 
Tough times ahead According to latest Bank of Uganda- State of the Economy report, while credit demand is expected to increase for both enterprises and households, spurred by improvements in macro-economic conditions, On the other hand however, banks expect to tighten non-price terms and conditions including, the size of the loan, collateral requirements and maturity of the loan as they implement stricter provisioning standards required under- International Financial Reporting Standards 9 (IFRS9) and guard against inadequate security. read: Struggling ECO-bank closes several ATM’s- exiting Uganda? 
This is bad news for banks who are already struggling and under capitalized. During the quarter ended December 2017, The value of loan applications totalled about Shs. 3,789.99 billion, while the value of approvals summed up to about Shs. 2,408.1 billion. The disparity between value of loan applications and approvals partly reflects supply-side constraints to growth in PSC.