Treat each other as royalty if you want successful marriages Women of Valour pose for a photo in their all-white attire. COURTESY PHOTOS In Summary What do you do when you are a newly married 20-something who wakes up to the harsh reality that the honeymoon has ended yet you are unequipped for the challenges of marriage? You could sit in a corner wishing reality away, lie on your bathroom floor and cry your heart out or you could invite a divine power to intervene just like Kyampaire Kabagambe did. And to boost the efficacy of her prayers, she enlisted a friend and the friend brought along her mother for maximum effect. A decade later, that union created out of despair is now known as Women of Valour (WoV) of 100 inspired and inspiring women living their best lives. Advertisement By CAROLYNE B. ATANGAZA 
Use scripture such as Ephesians 4:29 (Do not let any unwholesome talk come out of your mouths, but only what is helpful for building others up according to their needs), as a guide to what they say and how they say it. “We are grooming young children who look up to us,” said Pastor Unia Kiima. 
What do you do when you are a newly married 20-something who wakes up to the harsh reality that the honeymoon has ended yet you are unequipped for the challenges of marriage? You could sit in a corner wishing reality away, lie on your bathroom floor and cry your heart out or you could invite a divine power to intervene just like Kyampaire Kabagambe did. 
And to boost the efficacy of her prayers, she enlisted a friend and the friend brought along her mother for maximum effect. A decade later, that union created out of despair is now known as Women of Valour (WoV) of 100 inspired and inspiring women living their best lives. Looking phenomenal in all-white outfits, the women descended upon The Carnival restaurant in Naguru for an evening of fine dining, testimony and dynamic speakers. 
Speaking at the dinner, Kabagambe looked amazed by how the kitchen prayer meeting had evolved. “All we wanted was someone who understood what the other was going through and could therefore help keep our faith up that there was a God out there looking out for the good of everyone involved,” Kabagambe related. The two guest speakers, pastors Sam Aliku and Unia Kiima both leading activists and counsellors gave empowering speeches focusing on family and community growth. 
Protect familyPastor Aliku spoke about the importance of a man in a family unit stating that for a successful marriage, the man should fully embrace his role as the protector, provider, priest, prophet, and be present. “Husbands are supposed to provide protection for their families so that they are not attacked. For example, in the story of Adam and Eve, Adam failed to offer protection to his family so the enemy came and invaded it. There was no excuse for Adam to point fingers at Eve, he should have been there standing guard and putting away enemies,” Aliku noted. He observed that while it is a husband’s duty to provide for his family, their wives support will either make or break them. “Affirm your husbands; an encouraged man will work harder while a deflated one will be less productive,” he added. He cautioned men against using the excuse of work to be absent from their families. “Be present emotionally, financially, spiritually and physically. Be present to give spiritual direction. Pray with your children and family after all it is known that a family that prays together stays together,” tipped the pastor. 
Family vision He urged every husband to have an articulate vision for his family because that is a divine responsibility. He advised those who have not yet done so to sit down and write down what they want to achieve as a family, get clarity on their guiding principles and formulate a plan that is achievable in a definite timeline. 
Kiima’s message was directed at both men and women giving them pointers on how to communicate in a healthy manner with each other. Drawing her lesson from 1 Peter 4:11 which says “If anyone speaks, they should do so as one who speaks the very words of God. If anyone serves, they should do so with the strength God provides, so that in all things God may be praised through Jesus Christ. To him be the glory and the power for ever and ever.” Kiima reminded everyone that whoever speaks words that do not align with the character of who God is, working against what He intended man to be. “We are to communicate in love and with love, and no profanity should come out of our lips,” she cautioned. 
Mind what you say She observed that most people tend to forget that God intended marriage to fulfill His agenda which is to advance His Kingdom. “God gives us a spouse because He trusts that we shall take care of them, love them and enhance their abilities and talents to the glory of His name. So the way we communicate with our spouses is crucial,” Kiima explained. She asked her audience to imagine how they would prepare themselves if they were invited to Buckingham Palace to visit the queen. “I have no doubt that you would do intense preparation to ensure your wardrobe, hair and speech were all on point. Because there is protocol that must be observed while meeting the queen and you would not want to be the person who failed to,” she pointed. “Don’t you know you are children of the King of kings and you are therefore royals of the highest class?” she challenged her audience and tasked couples never to say or do things they would never do or say in the presence of royalty. The way we communicate with our spouses will affect how they will communicate with theirs in future,” she added. advertisement