Here comes spring with good tidings Nafha Maani Ebrahimi In Summary In a country like Iran where the four seasons take equal parts, spring brings with it the beginning of a new Persian year, March 21. Like any festivity in the world, people start preparing for this occasion weeks before it takes place. Nawruz lasts 13 days, during which friends and family visit one another, starting with the eldest members of the family on the first and second day. It is also a season of giving and sharing sweets with neighbours. After all these celebrations, and on the 13th day the families prepare their picnic baskets and find a green spot, preferably near a river where they will throw in their green (sabzeh) asking the river to take away all the sorrows of the year and wish for joy and happiness for the new year. Advertisement By Nafha Maani Ebrahimi 
This is probably one of the best seasons in most parts of the world, a time when the sun crosses the celestial Equator, the spring equinox. A gentle breeze is blowing, flowers are in full bloom and the fragrances of the roses are filling the air with an amazing aroma. 
In a country like Iran where the four seasons take equal parts, spring brings with it the beginning of a new Persian year, March 21. Like any festivity in the world, people start preparing for this occasion weeks before it takes place. The first step is, thorough cleaning of all corners of the house and as Persians are known for their rugs and carpets, this is a time when they are dusted and washed. Families prepare gifts for the children, which is usually clean, new money notes at a feast called Nawruz (a new day). Even in the poor families, it is a tradition to wear new clothes, bake special pastries and prepare a spread comprising seven items starting with the letter S. Each item used has a metaphoric significance such as wealth, prosperity, and purity. The most prominent being a green (Sabzeh) that one grows out of seeds such as lentils or barley. 
Nawruz lasts 13 days, during which friends and family visit one another, starting with the eldest members of the family on the first and second day. It is also a season of giving and sharing sweets with neighbours. After all these celebrations, and on the 13th day the families prepare their picnic baskets and find a green spot, preferably near a river where they will throw in their green (sabzeh) asking the river to take away all the sorrows of the year and wish for joy and happiness for the new year. 
For the Persian followers of the Baha’i religion, Nawruz comes with a double blessing. Starting March 2, and for the next 19 days, the Baha’is world over, start their month of fasting that also ends with Nawruz as a festival of joy and happiness. Having fasted both physically and spiritually during these days, the body that has been trained on less food, can hopefully sustain this good habit. The fact of waking up at dawn for a small breakfast and a session of prayers and meditation helps the spiritual awakening of the mind and soul. It is through meditation that one realises how blessed we are, each in our own way. With this realisation, comes the appreciation of God’s abundant blessings. Wishing all those who celebrate Nawruz, a very happy and prosperous new year. advertisement