Monday March 26 2018 Guide to buying your spouse lingerie It does not matter if you have been going out with a girl for two weeks or three years, buying underwear for your wife or girlfriend is sexy. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary Do not worry about how long you have been together. “It all depends on the woman, and what she likes. If you are not sure what to buy, get a couple of choices - a sexy outfit and a cute one.” Advertisement By Internet 
It could be the first big test of any romantic relationship - and a hideous red thong could leave you spending nights alone. Have you ever thought of buying your woman a bra or even knickers among other things. Guys, grab some tips. 
Find out her size “Sneak around the closet and try and look at the size she wears. Do not just go inside a store and start pointing at women saying ‘She has boobs bigger than hers, smaller than yours.’ That is going to be a little awkward! Steal a bra and look at the size and see what styles she likes.” 
Do not worry about how long you have been together“It does not matter if you have been going out with a girl for two weeks or three years, buying underwear for your wife or girlfriend is sexy. Even if you have only gone out with the girl for a couple of months, it does not have to be too. 
If you want her to wear it more than once, think comfort“For a woman, our bra is a second skin. To buy underwear just because it is beautiful is a waste of money. If it makes her uncomfortable she will never wear it... And you will be annoyed because you spent so much money! Get something comfortable and sexy and it is something that we will wear every day.” 
The fool-proof option “If you are not sure which colour she likes or whether she likes lace or silk, I would go for something modern and classic, like a black or nude silk push up bra. A push-up is an amazing thing for your girlfriend and for you too, because men love it when we have some extra cleavage! 
On the subject of stockings and other risky items“It all depends on the woman, and what she likes. If you are not sure what to buy, get a couple of choices - a sexy outfit and a cute one.” 
Taken the plunge - now present it with panache“Be original - women love surprises. It is cute if she is waking up in the morning, you have already left for work and when she wakes up she sees a beautiful designer bag on the pillow with a perfect bra from the new collection with some sexy stockings. Or call her at lunch and say “When you get home, there’s a surprise waiting for you under the bed.’ Then... just go with it!” advertisement