Schools should give realistic homework In Summary The issue: Homework Our view: It is time schools realized that for pupils to enjoy learning, their school workload and real life – playtime and sleep time – should be balanced. It is futile and counterproductive to force pupils to learn more than they can absorb. Advertisement 
Parents in Lwengo District last week used the occasion to mark the international Drop Everything And Read Day to raise concern about teachers who send home pupils with complex homework questions that are difficult to comprehend. The parents are unhappy that they are expected to answer difficult “take-home” questions regardless of their education levels. Moreover, some of the questions, the parents said, are way ahead of the syllabus. 
The frustration of the parents was shared by pupils, who also accused their teachers of loading them with too much homework packages. During the education stakeholders’ dialogue held in Lwengo District last week as part of activities to improve the reading culture among children, more than 200 pupils from different primary schools in the district, were unanimous in their call to teachers and parents: they are overworked and request to be handled with sympathy! 
There are two concerns from this meeting that deserve attention. The issue of how much homework should be given to pupils; and the expectation that all parents are educated and able to ‘help’ their children to answer difficult questions. Like one of the area leaders who attended the event noted, this is demeaning to parents who can’t answer the questions. 
This also raises the question: What objective is homework supposed to achieve if learners are not given freedom and time to study, research and comprehensively answer questions without the help of parents? Besides the workload, the Lwengo District inspector of schools, Mr Joseph Mulumba, condemned teachers for issuing take-home exercises to pupils which they cannot mark. He said this defeats the purpose of homework because pupils cannot measure their improvement and it kills their morale. 
Though Ms Sumaya Namutebi, a representative of the teachers, said they do not ask parents to help pupils answer take-home questions, arguing that they are only expected to remind children to do the exercises and probably supervise them closely, the issue of homework load has been severally raised by many parents. 
For city parents who drop and pick up children from school daily, the heavy traffic leads to many ‘lost hours’. Children end up doing homework during the evening commute home because often, by the time they get home, there is little time between bath ti 
It is time schools realised that for pupils to enjoy learning, their school workload and real life – playtime and sleep time – should be balanced. It is futile and counterproductive to force pupils to learn more than they can absorb. 
Our commitment to you • To be accurate and fair in all we do.• To be respectful to all in our pursuit of the truth.• To refuse to accept any compensation beyond that provided by Monitor Publications Ltd. for what we do in our news gathering and decision-making.Further, we ask that we be informed whenever you feel that we have fallen short in our attempt to keep these commitments. editorial@ug.nationmedia.com