Monday March 26 2018 Fun ways to celebrate this Easter Have a picnic. Go to beaches, gardens or any place with a great scenery and spend your day there. FILE PHOTO In Summary 
HAVE A SUPERB HOLIDAY. Christian or not, the Easter holiday falls on most school calendars. While those who commute to school find it easy to juggle with normal schedule, those that live at university could use some tips to make the four-day holiday fun, writes Zuurah Karungi . Advertisement By Zuurah Karungi 
Celebrating Easter at campus could be one of the worst experiences for one who has never had it away from home. Nevertheless, you can make the best Easter memories depending on how you celebrate it. Here are some ideas on how you can have fun during the Easter season. 
Have a picnic It sounds exotic, but Scovia Mbabazi, a graduate, says organising a picnic with friends could be a great idea. Go to beaches, gardens or any place with a great scenery and spend your day there. Have different games, stories and take pictures for memories sake. 
Attend mass or service Nebert Wabyona, a student at Makerere University, says you can use this time to strengthen your spiritual power. Different masses are held in different churches and one can spend time there. He adds that it is one way to keep you busy and away from temptations of going to night clubs and other dangerous things.“You will have a place to spend your time since most universities close. This will also help you get closer to God as well as make friendships with people to enrich faith,” he adds. 
Go shopping Daphine Kabasewka, a student at Kampala International University, notes that you can use this time to go shopping if you have money. But in case you don’t, she says, window shopping at malls or markets near you could be an option. This will open your mind to different ideas in society as you look at different things in the environment. 
Visit friends This could be a great time to visit friends in different universities around you. Jacob Opio, a student at Kyambogo University, says check on your friends and spend time with them during this four-day holiday.“You can use this time to unite with tribe mates around different universities, and discuss on ideas how you can improve society. One person can initiate this and make it a custom every Easter to discuss things that matter rather than going for useless things” he adds. 
Make a party Mbabazi adds that you can make a party and invite friends to your place. Talk to a couple of friends, she says, and have them contribute to the party so that you have a variety of food. Do activities that can create memories, for example, dance and singing competitions, among others. 
Watch movies This could be a great option for introverts. Have a collection of movies and watch them the entire Easter season to your satisfaction. Go to friends and ask for different movies to have enough for the entire time.“This is an indoor entertainment that could keep you busy, happy and free from harm that you could meet outside,” says Bernard Wanyama, an Education student at Makerere University.Alternatively, you can go to cinemas and watch as they normally show great movies, specifically for the Easter season. 
Go for concerts For music and drama funs, concerts could be a great choice since so many of them are staged all around. Akena advises that you should be security conscious at every stage of your actions, make sure you are going to a secure place and walk in groups because a one day celebration could claim your life. 
Read a book Sometimes you cannot read your favourite book because of too much work at campus. Gimono Sharon, a fresh graduate and literature teacher, notes that this is the ample time to read it. Books help in great things among which are improving your vocabulary, widening your knowledge as well as entertaining yourself. 
Go for sports Use this time to enjoy your favourite game – football, netball, basketball etc. This will keep you engaged and is safer than going to concerts and other outdoor celebrations that could turnout dangerous. 
Take a walk You might live in an area when you do not know what or who is in your neighbourhood. Patrick Akena, a security personnel, says you can use this season to learn more about where you stay. Mbabazi notes that this can be done with friends or you can go on a lone walk. Akena advises that you should go to places that have tight security, make sure you are in groups to avoid kidnaps and other uncertainties. Do not do things that could put your life at risk, for example, swimming yet it is your first time at the swimming pool or lakefront. advertisement