Who will next compare President Museveni to God? Some NRM party members have equated President Museveni to God. In Summary 
Praised. A number of people, including members of Mr Museveni’s Cabinet and some who had until very recently been known to be erstwhile critics in the Opposition, have in the last two years or so been lavishing praise on the President to a point of blasphemy, writes Isaac Mufumba. Advertisement By Isaac Mufumba 
President Museveni has a fair number of critics. And, going by his reactions and the names he sometimes gives his critics, he does not fancy being criticised. On the other hand, however, he must be gratified that he has a number of praise-singers, and their number seems to grow by the day.Over the last 32 years of his rule, Mr Museveni has made it quite a habit to blow his own trumpet. Most of the words are in vernacular. He has referred to himself as Ssabalwanyi (super/supreme warrior), Nyarwino (giant red ant with deadly bite) and Ssabagabe (king of kings); titles by which he has since come to be known across the country. 
Mr Museveni is not the only African leader who has projected himself in that light. The late former leader of Libya, Muammar Gaddafi, referred to himself as the king of kings, the same title Shaka, the king of the Zulu, had earlier claimed after running amok in South Africa.In the DR Congo, Joseph Desire Mobutu renamed himself Mobutu Sese Seko Kuku Ngbendu Wa Za Banga, (the only cock that crows in then Zaire). It was not new in Uganda too. One of Mr Museveni’s predecessors, Idi Amin, had done it before. 
Amin had by the time of his fall in April 1979 given himself every possible name and title. He was Field Marshal Idi Amin Dada. After awarding himself an honorary Doctorate of Philosophy from Makerere University, he awarded himself the Victoria Cross (VC), the highest award given to members of the British armed forces for gallantry in the presence of the enemy. He also awarded himself another array of military decorations of the United Kingdom. These included the Distinguished Service Order (DSO), Military Cross (MC) and Conqueror of the British Empire, which was a variation of Commander of the British Empire (CBE). 
Titles Nature inadvertently helped Amin’s ‘cause’ when it allowed him to father a set of twins. By the time he was sent packing, Amin was His Excellency Field Marshal Dr Idi Amin Dada Ssalongo, VC, DSO, MC, CBE. Quite a mouthful, but it had become quite acceptable.Mr Museveni’s naming himself was therefore not new. It is also not new that one’s supporters and underlings sing a leader’s praises.During Milton Obote’s second regime (1980-85), folks from western Uganda came up with “Obote Nyamurunga”, which, we are told, was meant to project Obote as having been as beautiful as a peacock. 
What is unprecedented though is the number of people, including members of Mr Museveni’s Cabinet and some who had until very recently been known to be erstwhile critics in the Opposition, who have in the last two years or so been lavishing praise on the President to a point of blasphemy.This month alone, a former minister of Security in the Obote II government, Chris Rwakasisi, and the Government Chief Whip, Ms Ruth Nankabirwa, told the nation about how Museveni obeys the word of God and how his intellect is very close to that of God.Before them, Kitgum Municipality MP Beatrice Anywar and the minister for Kampala, Ms Beti Olive Kamya, and the Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Mr Jacob Oulanyah, had sang the president’s praises in different forms and fora. 
Not normal For some like Ms Nankabirwa, the matter of the President having an intellect next to that of God appears to have become some kind of obsession, which Mr Henry Nsubuga, a psychologist and director of the Counselling Centre at Makerere University, says might not be normal.“If it is in marketing it is alright, but if not, praise-singing might be a development challenge when there is no self-talk. It might be a case of obsessive compulsive disorder. When one gets obsessed with something – it might be a car, a toy or a phone,” he says. 
It is unlikely that this is a case of obsessive compulsive disorder for it does not develop from one minute to the next. Ms Nankabirwa, who started legislative work in 1994 and first became a minister in 1998, has been working with Mr Museveni for quite some time now. It is, therefore, surprising that it is only in the last few months that she has realised that his intelligence borders on that of the omnipotent. Why now and not before? 
Long history But, to be fair, praising-singing in favour of President Museveni started many years ago. During the Bush War period, Mr Museveni, then a rebel leader, was cast as a superhuman being who, for instance, would morph into a cat or anthill when enemy forces were about to corner him. It is not clear whether he created this image of himself or it was created by his followers, but it continued into his presidency and was evident even in the early years. 
Sole candidate. Evelyn Anite (kneeling) reads the resolution by NRM MPs to endorse Mr Museveni as their presidential flag-bearer for 2016 in Kyankwanzi in 2015. 
When, for instance, Dr Kizza Besigye went shopping for candidates to challenge Mr Museveni in the 2001 election, a number of them, including the late Eriya Kategaya, Mr Jaberi Bidandi Ssali and Mr Amanya Mushega, declined the challenge. They, as they would later admit, felt that some things were going wrong and they needed to do something about it, but they still felt that challenging Mr Museveni was the wrong thing to do. They preferred to wait him out of power, which they hoped would come in 2006 when his two terms were set to expire. He instigated a change in the Constitution and stayed on, and the trio fell out with him over that. 
Mr Amama Mbabazi, the President’s hitherto trusted lieutenant who also ran out of patience and challenged him in the 2016 elections, in late 2000 castigated Dr Besigye for “jumping the queue” and challenging Mr Museveni in the 2001 election. He’ like the others, seemed to be waiting out Mr Museveni, and put in a spirit in support of lifting term limits in 2005. For the lifting of term limits, there was a good number of Museveni praise singers too, including but not limited to Mr Mbabazi, his sister-in-law Hope Mwesigye, who was then minister for Parliamentary Affairs, then vice president Prof Gilbert Bukenya, among others. They took turns to impress it upon Ugandans why Mr Museveni needed to extend his rule, which would clock 20 years in 2006, the year he was expected to retire after serving his second term. 
In the run-up to the lifting of the age limits for the presidency last year, another group of Museveni praise singers had emerged, among them Koboko Municipality MP Evelyn Anite and her counterpart from Arua Municipality Ibrahim Abiriga. Ms Anite had started early enough when, as Youth MP for Northern Uganda, she cut the ground from under Mr Mbabazi’s feet and knelt down to implore Mr Museveni to accept to be the ruling party’s sole candidate for the 2016 elections. This was in February 2014. Mr Mbabazi was then prime minister and rumoured to be interested in challenging for the presidency. Ms Anite, for her theatrics and liberal praise of the President, would soon scoop for herself a position in Cabinet as the State minister for Investment and Privatisation. 
As if in an attempt not to be outdone, some individuals who were in past bitterly opposed to Mr Museveni’s rule have since embraced him and have sometimes offered louder and more liberal praise of the President. The most notable of these in the recent past are Kitgum Municipality MP Beatrice Anywar and Kampala Affairs minister Beti Kamya, who has said Mr Museveni thinks better than the combination of his Cabinet of 80-plus members. And the praise-singing for the President has since only picked up more momentum. 
What is their motivation? When King Solomon dedicated the Temple to God, he offered sacrifices and praised God. God answered by sending fire from heaven. Then His Glory came (2 Chronicles 7). Praise attracts God’s presence. He is drawn to where He is welcomed. Might they, therefore, be driven by the thinking that their praises will attract Museveni in the same way that Solomon’s praises attracted God?Dr David Babi Kamusaala, a psychologist and Head of Human Resource in the Faculty of Business and Management Sciences at Mbarara University of Science and Technology (MUST), argues that behaviour is shaped out of man’s interaction with the environment, adding that one simply needs to look at the environment around the country in order to understand what it is that is driving all those people.He argues that Mr Museveni has over the years been seen to reward those who sing his praises with appointments to key positions in government and that those who do not have jobs right now have chosen to praise sing their way into them while those who already have seem to be inclined towards praise singing their way into bigger portfolios.“People like Ms Anywar have already hinted on what it is that is driving them. She told us that if he offers her a job, she will go running for it. That is more like a blind application for it. Others like Ms Nankabirwa and Mr Oulanyah must be looking forward to some kind of promotions,” he says. 
Dr Kamusaala says that the praises would have made more meaning if they had been pegged to some of the many achievements that Mr Museveni and the NRM have registered over the last 32 years.Quoting figures from the World Bank, he says that Gross Domestic Production (GDP) rose from $3.92 billion in 1986 to $6.04 billion in 1996, $9.94 billion in 2006 and $24.07 billion in 2016 while revenue collection rose from Shs5b in 1986 to Shs59 trillion as of the end of the calendar year 2015. 
“They should have been using those figures to coin a name like Ssababalirizi (chief/supreme economist) which would have pointed to the achievements in that area. Similarly, life expectancy has increased and infant and maternal mortality rates have gone down. The number of government owned health facilities have also increased. Why, if they are genuine, haven’t they come up with a name like Ssabawonya (supreme healer) which would be appropriate,” he says. 
Minister for ICT and National Guidance Frank Tumwebaze says that it should not be of concern to anyone that ministers are taking to singing praises of the President.“Everyone has a right to express himself or herself. Why should it bother you that I appreciate President Museveni the way I do? Why should you make it look scandalous?” he asks.Minister Tumwebaze may be right, but the problem is that many Ugandans simply do not believe that the praise is genuine. 
What they have said 
President Museveni is like Jesus Christ who left his comfort zone of heaven and opted to come down to earth to die for sinners. There was a time in Uganda where people had no right of worship. Thanks to President Museveni and the NRM government that ushered in peace and security and promoting right of worship,” Deputy Speaker of Parliament, Jacob Oulanyah 
President Museveni is a gift from God and because of his superhuman wisdom, we should keep him in power to continue serving Ugandans… He is a very devoted man. Like Jesus, he left the comforts of the world and decided to use his life to help Ugandans out of poverty and misery,” Ms Ruth Nankabirwa, Government Chief Whip 
Any minute there is an opportunity, I will go to President Museveni with no regret. He is a great leader because he is tolerant. He is able to listen to some of us… I will work with him pakalast, because my people want service delivery. I cannot get services from Col Kizza Besigye or Amama Mbabazi,” Kitgum Municipality MP, Ms Beatrice Anywar 
“For the little time I have worked with the President, I find him a very informed and tolerant leader. I sit in Cabinet every Wednesday, but actually I think he is more intelligent than Cabinet combined. Therefore, you just can’t do away with him,” Ms Beti Kamya, Minister for Kampala 
Museveni loves God. To prove that he loves God, he does what God tells him to do. God told him not to kill me and he did not,” Mr Chris Rwakasisi, Former Security Minister in Milton Obote’s government advertisement