Monday March 26 2018 Why is KCCA valuing properties? Which properties are meant to pay property rate? All immovable properties are valued. However, only commercial immovable properties are subjected to payment of property rates. In Summary KCCA has completed the valuation exercise in Nakawa Division where more than 60,000 properties were valued. If you are not comfortable with the property rates annual fees levied on their property, you should file an objection at the valuation court, situated on, Third Floor City Hall, KCCA, within 30 days. Advertisement By Robert Kalumba 
At the beginning of last year, Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) embarked on the process of property rates valuation, with central being the first division to kickoff this exercise. One would ask; Why is KCCA valuing properties? It is mainly for three reason: The local government (rating) Act of 2005 stipulates that local governments will have to carry out property valuations every five years. 
The last property valuation in Kampala was done in 2005; property valuation is the process through which local governments and KCCA, go through to arrive at property rates payable by property owners; lastly, property rates are a source of revenue for local governments and KCCA, whose revenue is used for funding service deliverables such as road construction, garbage collection, etc. 
Which properties are meant to pay property rate? All immovable properties are valued. However, only commercial immovable properties are subjected to payment of property rates. Examples of immovable commercial properties include hotels, arcades, apartments, residential rented properties, telephone masts, etc, In simple terms, any property that gives income to the owner is subject to payment of property rates.How is property rates computed? Let us use a simple example: Imagine Kalumba Apartments makes Shs1m as gross income a year, the law states that 22 per cent of that (Shs220,000), is not taxed, but given back to Kalumba as money he can use to renovate his apartments, etc. 
What is taxed is the remaining Shs780,000. And 6 per cent of the Shs780,000 is the money payable to KCCA as property rate by Kalumba, that is Shs46,800. One should note that the Shs46,800 Kalumba pays, is an annual fee. 
According to the Local Government Rating Act of 2005, KCCA is mandated to charge property rates of between 1 per cent to 12 per cent of the ratable value of the property, which in this case is the 6 per cent that translates into Shs46,800 as the annual property rates fee. However, other local governments like Wakiso, charge 8 per cent on commercial properties as compared to 6 per cent KCCA charges. 
What if, as a property owner, I am not comfortable with the rate KCCA levied on my property? There is a valuation court that acts as an arbitrator between the aggrieved party and KCCA. This court is independent. The valuation court can only hear objections filed within the mandatory 30 days in accordance with the law. 
KCCA has completed the valuation exercise in Nakawa Division where more than 60,000 properties were valued. If you are not comfortable with the property rates annual fees levied on their property, you should file an objection at the valuation court, situated on, Third Floor City Hall, KCCA, within 30 days. Robert Kalumba,