Court clerk interdicted over bribery allegations Advertisement By ANTHONY WESAKA 
KAMPALA- A court clerk, whose voice was captured in a video clip that was recently aired on a news bulleting of Daily Monitor’s affiliate, NTV-Uganda, while allegedly asking for a Shs1 million bribe from a complainant, has been interdicted. 
The voice was reported captured at Nsangi Magistrates’ court in Wakiso District. 
Mr Andrew Zzimula was interdicted by the Judiciary’s accounting officer, Mr Kagole Kivumbi on Monday to pave way for investigations into the bribery allegations against him. 
“Arising from your response to the allegation, it is necessary that an investigation be carried out to among other relevant issues, establish whether the voice in the clip belongs to a different person,” Mr Kivumbi’s March 26, 2018, to Mr Zzimula reads in part. “Therefore, in accordance with paragraphs F-s8 of the Uganda Public Service Standing Orders 2010 and Regulation 38 of the Public Service Commission Regulations, 2009, public interest requires that you cease to perform the functions of the office attendant in the courts of judicature. Consequently, you are hereby interdicted.” 
According to the interdiction letter, Mr Zzimula will earn half of his salary and he is also not supposed to go anywhere near the court premises without the permission of Mr Kivumbi. In the video clip that aired about a month ago, Mr Zzimula is heard allegedly asking a victim of land fraud in Nsangi, Wakiso District, Mr James Kasekende to give him Shs1 million. 
In the story, Mr Kasekende was forced to demolish his house after discovering that a plot where he built a house, which he allegedly bought with the approval of the area chairperson, Mr Stephen Nyende Mulyoowa, belonged to another person. 
“Listen, last time, I told the magistrate that the man [Mr Kasekende] can bring at least Shs1m….. but you never showed up,” the NTV-Uganda video clip quotes Mr Zzimula as saying. 
However, in his preliminary defence, Mr Zzimula denies the voice in the video clip as being his.According to the Judiciary, this is the second time Mr Zimula is facing bribery allegations. 
He was once accused of demanding a Shs200, 000 bribe from a court litigant but matter was handled by the Inspector General of Government.Clerks in Uganda have often been accused of perpetuating corruption in courts. awesaka@ug.nationmedia.com