KCCA accounting body queries Musisi over temporary staff Jennifer Musisi appearing before the KCCA Public Accounts Committee. PHOTO BY ABUBAKER LUBOWA In Summary Mr Bob Kabaziguraka, the chairperson of the committee, questioned the powers which KCCA has to recruit staff. His question was triggered by Ms Musisi's revelation that out of 1133 current KCCA staff, only 391 are permanent while 742 are temporary, and are recruited by KCCA. Permanent staff are recruited by public service while temporary staff is recruited within KCCA. Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA 
Kampala Capital City Authority (KCCA) executive director, Jennifer Musisi has been tasked by the institution's Public Accounts Committee (PAC) to explain the manner in which she recruited 742. Mr Bob Kabaziguraka, the chairperson of the committee, questioned the powers which KCCA has to recruit staff."Where do you as KCCA get powers to recruit all these workers on a temporary basis, and who authorized you to do so?" Mr Kabaziguruka asked. 
His question was triggered by Ms Musisi's revelation that out of 1133 current KCCA staff, only 391 are permanent while 742 are temporary, and are recruited by KCCA.She explained that whereas government had made commitment to give them funding so that they could recruit staff, nothing has been realised. Ms Musisi said they were consequently forced to contract staff on a temporary basis. 
But Mr Micheal Tugyetwena, one of the committee members questioned the procedures of recruiting staff on temporary basis, arguing that the public isn't satisfied.“How sure are we that you genuinely appoint these staff? This is a public institution where everything must be done thoroughly without favoring specific persons," he said. 
Although Mr Richard Lule, the KCCA director of human resource and administration said that they head hunt for temporary staff, Mr tugyetwena disagreed with him, saying that KCCA isn't mandated to do so.Musisi later said that they normally recruit temporary staff from a bank of applicants.She also said that they have written to Finance ministry to give them more funding in the 2018/19 budget so that public service can recruit staff. 
Permanent staff are recruited by public service while temporary staff is recruited within KCCA.However, this has always raised eyebrows with members of the public accusing KCCA staff of giving jobs to their relatives, a claim Ms Musisi disputes. advertisement