Monday March 26 2018 Museveni explains 2001 boda boda ride into Kololo Light moment. President Museveni shares a light moment with Justice Jane Frances Abodo ahead of the swearing-in ceremony of newly appointed judges at State House Entebbe last Friday. PHOTO BY PPU In Summary During the 2001 nomination of presidential candidates, President Museveni arrived at the nomination venue on a black boda boda. The judges sworn-in to the High Court Bench included Mr Paul Gadenya, Olive Kazaarwe, Alex Ajiji, Tadeo Asiimwe, Joyce Kavuma and Emmanuel Baguma, all former registrars. Advertisement By ANTHONY WESAKA 
President Museveni has for the first time in nearly 18 years come out publicly to explain why he jumped onto a boda boda to enter Kololo Independence Grounds to be nominated as a presidential candidate in 2001.Mr Museveni said he decided to ride on a boda boda because he risked running late for nominations. The President made the revelation last Friday while presiding over the swearing-in ceremony of new judges at State House Entebbe. 
“One time, I was almost disqualified as a presidential candidate because the time for nomination ends at a certain time. I don’t remember which particular election, but I was delayed; actually I didn’t delay but I underestimated the crowds waiting for me as I left Nakasero at 3pm and because of the crowds, I could not go to Kololo that is when I jumped on a boda to take me there,” Mr Museveni said. “Now if I had not arrived in time, the nominating officer would have disqualified me as a presidential candidate. That is when procedure becomes important because you must have a cut-off point,” he added. During the 2001 nomination of presidential candidates, President Museveni arrived at the nomination venue on a black boda boda. He had jumped onto the taxi cycle from his vehicle at entrance to the airstrip and could hardly find a seat as his jubilant supporters jammed the entire pavilion in a bid to catch a glimpse of their candidate. This saw his security detail battle the excited supporters to clear a passage for him. Then Electoral Commission chairperson Hajji Aziz Kasujja declared Mr Museveni a duly nominated candidate at 3.57pm although the cut off time was 5pm, leaving him with at least one hour to spare. 
For the last 18 years, the public had thought that President Museveni jumped onto the boda boda to take him for his nominations as a populist stunt to impress his supporters and also woo motorcycle taxi riders for votes.The President had two options to reach Kololo airstrip within the set time by either using a chopper that could have taken under five minutes or use his security to clear the way for him. The distance between Nakasero State Lodge and Kololo airstrip, which was the venue for nomination, is about two kilometres apart. 
JUDGES TAKE OATH 
The President used his boda boda ride experience to explain to the newly sworn-in judges not to religiously follow procedure while making their judgments but also consider the substance of the cases.“Sometimes, procedure is important but I think one should not forget that in the end, what is crucial is customer satisfaction and confidence of the population. So in some of those of judgments, look at the substance rather than the procedures. What is more important, procedure or substance?” 
The judges sworn-in to the High Court Bench included Mr Paul Gadenya, Olive Kazaarwe, Alex Ajiji, Tadeo Asiimwe, Joyce Kavuma and Emmanuel Baguma, all former registrars.Others were Mr Musa Sekaana, Mr Richard Wabwire, Ms Jane Frances Abodo, and Ms Cornelia Sabiiti. Also sworn-in was Justice Ezekiel Muhanguzi of the Court of Appeal, who had retired last year from the High Court. 
awesaka@ug.nationmedia.com