Monday March 26 2018 Police probes mysterious deaths in Kisoro, Kabale Police in Kisoro have launched investigations into the death of a 55-year-old primary school teacher whose body was found dumped a few meters to his home on Sunday morning. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary The deceased was identified as Jonas Mugisha, a teacher at Rwanzu Primary School in Busanza Sub County. In related news, police in Kabale are investigating the circumstances under which two people were killed by unknown assailants. The deceased were identified as, Livingston Tugumisirize, 32, a bodaboda rider in Kabale town and Immaculate Kyarisima, 28, a resident of Rugarama village. Advertisement By AGENCIES 
Police in Kisoro have launched investigations into the death of a 55-year-old primary school teacher whose body was found dumped a few meters to his home on Sunday morning. The deceased was identified as Jonas Mugisha, a teacher at Rwanzu Primary School in Busanza Sub County. According to a family member, Mugisha, a resident of Gatobo village in Nyarubuye Sub County, was last seen on Saturday evening in Gatobo trading centre. The police spokesperson for Kigezi Region, Elly Maate says that preliminary investigations show that the deceased was strangled to death. But his killers did not take any of his possessions which included, among others, a mobile phone and money. In related news, police in Kabale are investigating the circumstances under which two people were killed by unknown assailants. The deceased were identified as, Livingston Tugumisirize, 32, a bodaboda rider in Kabale town and Immaculate Kyarisima, 28, a resident of Rugarama village. Hillary Byamukama, an area resident says that bodies of the deceased were discovered in a ditch on Sunday. The police spokesperson for Kigezi region, Elly Maate, says that the deceased's heads were found smashed and other parts of the bodies with multiple injuries. Maate also says that the assailants also robed off a BAJAJ Boxer motorcycle registration number UEM 867W which the deceased persons were travelling while heading home from Kabale town. advertisement