Monday March 26 2018 Gen Elwelu: Fight for offices kills people Arrival. The Commander of the Land Forces, Maj Gen Peter Elwelu (left front row), the new Commandant of Military Police, Col William Bainomugisha (right back row) and the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Brig Sabiiti Muzeyi (right) arrive at Makindye Police Barracks for the handover ceremony of Mr Sabiiti on March 24, 2018. PHOTO BY ABUBAKER LUBOWA In Summary Col Bainomugisha promised to maintain discipline in the Military Police because whatever they do mirrors the level of discipline in the entire armed forces. The Barracks Zone chairman, Mr Stephen Bahatambira, challenged the deputy IGP to sort out bribery in the police, saying suspected criminals rounded-up through joint operations have always been released back to the community within hours of their arrest after offering inducements. Advertisement By MISAIRI THEMBO KAHUNGU 
Kampala. The commander of the Uganda People’s Defence Forces (UPDF) Land Forces, Maj Gen Peter Elwelu, has warned the new Deputy Inspector General of Police, Brig Sabiiti Muzeyi, not to target the police’s top job but work towards defeating “political hooliganism” in the country. 
Gen Elwelu made the comments on Saturday while presiding at the handover by Brig Muzeyi of the office of Commander of Military Police to his successor, Col William Bainomugisha, at the Makindye military police barracks.Brig Muzeyi, who has been the commander of the Military Police since April 2017, was appointed Deputy IGP early this month replacing Martin Okoth Ochola, who was elevated as police chief when President Museveni sacked Gen Kale Kayihura on March 4. “Be careful in police because you are not going as a de facto IGP, but what we in the military want you to do is excellent work in the civilian uniform as a deputy IGP. Work very well with Ochola because what it is all about is peace and stability of our country. What has always killed people is struggling for offices,” Gen Elwelu said. 
Teamwork He added that there is need for continuous teamwork among the sister security agencies to jointly defeat modern day criminality that has come with rapid development.He said the forces need to be “very vigilant” to fight criminality especially in Kampala, adding that Ugandans need a secure city because they have a lot to do in a conducive environment. 
“Brig Sabiiti, I thank you for handling the people such as Kitatta (detained patron of Boda Boda 2010) because this capital should be free for all. This capital is very good at night and we want people from all regions to come here and do good things at night without trouble. This can be achieved through teamwork,” Gen Elwelu added.He commended Brig Muzeyi for the achievements during his 11 months at the helm of the Military Police and asked the successor, Col Bainomugisha, to pick the best practices for sustainability. 
In his speech during an open session of the events – the part of the handover related to as classified information was held in camera – Brig Muzeyi said he had renovated the health facility at the barracks that offers services both to soldiers and neighbouring communities, upgraded roads in the barracks and upskilled officers. 
He promised to work with the IGP Ochola to ensure total cooperation between the police, sister security agencies and the entire population for a peaceful Uganda.“I promise total cooperation between the police and the residents. We have achieved all these things in Military Police because of cooperation and teamwork and I thank my personnel for selfless service and I hope the same is showed to my successor,” Brig Muzeyi said. 
Col Bainomugisha: Brig Sabiiti’s successor 
Col Bainomugisha promised to maintain discipline in the Military Police because whatever they do mirrors the level of discipline in the entire armed forces. The Militray Police is a branch of the army responsible for instilling discipline among the rank-and-file of UPDF. He also promised to ensure the health facility is well stocked with drugs and other supplies for better management of the health needs of military personnel, families and neighbouring civilian populations. 
The Barracks Zone chairman, Mr Stephen Bahatambira, challenged the deputy IGP to sort out bribery in the police, saying suspected criminals rounded-up through joint operations have always been released back to the community within hours of their arrest after offering inducements.“The leadership of Sabiiti has been exemplary and from him we have seen the high level of discipline among the military police. But now that you have gone to police, we request you to stop bribery there because the police have been releasing the criminals we arrest in operations,” Mr Bahatambira said. 
mkthembo@ug.nationmedia.com