Renewed clashes erupt in South Sudan as peace talks loom   
Fresh fighting has erupted in several parts of South Sudan as the warring factions prepare for the third round of peace talks in Ethiopia. Fighting has been reported in the northeastern states of Latjor, Fasoda and in the southern region of Kajo-Keji in Yei River State despite a recently signed ceasefire. 
The South Sudanese army and the main rebel group, the Sudan People’s Liberation Army-In Opposition (SPLA-IO), have accused each other of starting the latest fighting. Lul Ruai Koang, spokesman for the Sudan People’s Liberation Army (SPLA), told Xinhua on Monday that SPLA-IO rebels loyal to the country’s former deputy president Riek Machar on Sunday launched multiple attacks on government-held areas in three parts of South Sudan. - Advertisement - 
“Yesterday (Sunday) the rebels attacked our defensive positions in Nasir in Latjor state. They also attacked our base in Sokare in Kajo-Keji. On the same day, they attacked our positions in Shiluk Kingdom where they overpowered our forces there and captured the base,” Koang said.“This is great concern to us that the rebels are not committed to the cessation of hostilities agreement,” Koang added. Lam Paul Gabriel, SPLA-IO deputy military spokesperson, denied the government accusations, alleging that Juba has engaged in a drive to capture opposition-controlled areas before the start of the upcoming high-level revitalization forum. 
“This aggression on our forces is planned by the government of South Sudan. Let’s not play this blame games because the truth is the government doesn’t want peace,” Gabriel told Xinhua.“We request CTSAMM (Ceasefire and Transitional Security Arrangements Monitoring Mechanism) to come and investigate so that they come out with clear details about the fighting and tell who started it,” he added. The South Sudanese government and several rebel groups late last year signed the Cessation of Hostilities Agreement (COHA), but the truce was broken the same day it came into effect on Dec. 24. 
The Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), an East African regional bloc that brokered the pact, has urged the warring parties to respect the ceasefire deal and report violations to CTSAMM. South Sudan has been embroiled in civil war since December and the conflict, now its fifth year, has taken a devastating toll on the people, creating one of the fastest growing refugee crisis in the world. 
A peace deal signed in August 2015 between the rival leaders under UN pressure led to the establishment of a transitional unity government in April, but was shattered by renewed fighting in July 2016. The parties to the agreement are preparing to meet for the third round of peace talks on a date yet to been announced by IGAD. 
///Xinhua