Tweet Huawei Contributes to World Customs Conference 
Leading global ICT solutions provider, Huawei, contributed to the World Customs Organization’s 4th Authorized Economic Operator (‘AEO’) global conference hosted by Uganda Revenue Authority in Kampala through its strategies and operations. 
According to Huawei Uganda’s Managing Director, Mr. Stanley Chyn, “Huawei is willing to participate, and to make its contribution to this customs revolution by aligning our strategies and operations. We would also like use this great opportunity to appeal to all stakeholders for an open and non-discriminatory set of global trade and investment rules to support the future growth of the digital economy, and to implement effective, transparent and proportionate measures to ensure safety, security and integrity of global value chains via AEO and MRAs.” 
“Huawei Uganda was awarded AEO certificate in 2016. On that note, we pledge to continue to comply with local laws and regulations, and make great contribution to the ICT industry,” he added. 
The 4th WCO global AEO conference was hosted at Kampala Serena Hotel from 14th to the 16th of March, with the theme; “Promoting Mutual Recognition of AEOs to Strengthen and Secure Global Trade.” This was to provide a unique opportunity to discuss developments related to AEO and global security concerns. The participants exchanged views on both the challenges and opportunities of AEO and MRAs, and the increasing role played by technology in this space. 
This global conference attracted approximately 1,500 participants from over 169 countries; heads of Revenue and Tax Authorities, Customs Administrations, Government and Multilateral Policymakers, senior International Logistics, Trade 
Compliance and Supply-Chain Managers, Chief Executive Officers from Companies in the trade supply chain, authorised Economic Operators, multilateral financial institutions, Corporate and Trade Organization Executives, Supply-Chain IT Providers, Legal Advisors, Academia and Economists and the Business Community. 
Huawei which is a corporate sponsor of the global conference and a member of World Customs Organization’s advisory body ‘The Private Sector Consultative Group (PSCG)’, in charge of enhancing the effectiveness and efficiency of Customs administrations worldwide, appealed to stakeholders for an open and non-discriminatory set of global trade and investment rules to support the future growth of the digital economy. It has achieved approximately AEO certificates in 19 countries and regions including South Africa, Uganda, Malaysia, China and Kenya. 
At the conference round table, the importance of the Mutual Recognition of Authorised Economic Operators (‘MRAs’), the perspective of the private sector and ho