Tuesday March 27 2018 Rhesus factor linked to miscarriages At your first prenatal visit, your practitioner will check your blood to see whether it is type O, A, B, or AB, and whether it is Rh-negative. In Summary 
Like your blood type, you inherit your Rhesus (Rh) factor type from your parents. Most people are Rh-positive, but a small percentage of people are Rh-negative. If a woman is Rh-negative and her baby is Rh-positive, then her body will approach the Rh-positive protein as something that is foreign. Advertisement By Carolyne B. Atangaza 
The Rhesus (Rh) factor was not discovered until 1937 by Karl Landsteiner and Alexander Weiner. Named after the rhesus monkey, which also carries the gene, the Rh factor is a protein that lives on the surface of the red blood cells. According to Dr Ivan Ndoboli, there are four basic blood types which are split into a positive and negative type. These types are further classified basing on an antigen present in red blood cells, called the D antigen. “The existence of D antigens on red blood cells classifies blood types as Rh positive; A+ or O+ and its absence classifies them as Rh negative; O- or A-,” Dr. Ndoboli explains. 
Just as we inherit our blood type from our parents, we inherit the Rh factor from them as well. Each person has two Rh factors in their genetics, one from each parent. The only way for someone to have a negative blood type is for both parents to have at least one negative factor. For example, if someone’s Rh factors are both positive, it is not possible for his or her child to have a negative blood type. Only people with at least one Rh-negative factor will have a negative blood type, which is why the occurrence of Rh-negative blood is less common than Rh-positive blood. The Rh factor is also controlled by DNA that controls our hair and eye colour, our blood type and most everything else about us. 
Knowing your Rhesus factor Knowing your Rh factor is important because it helps determine which blood types you can receive. Generally, we have A+, A–, B+, B–, AB+, AB–, O+ and O–. It is also essential during pregnancy to prevent problems. Herman Kato, a laboratory technologist from City Medical in Bukoto, says it is routine for women to do various blood tests at their first visit. “The initial test is to confirm pregnancy and your haemoglobin levels (Hb) to check that you are not anaemic. Your blood group is also checked and the Rh factor,” Kato explains. 
Dr Ndoboli says about 85 per cent of the population has Rh+ making Rh- very rare and problematic. “In most cases there are no Rh factor problems unless the mother is Rh–. When the mother is Rh- chances are very slim that the father is Rh- as well. The challenge therefore is that baby could inherit the Rh+ from the father,” the doctor explains. When an Rh negative mother is pregnant with an Rh positive child, the mother’s immune system can attack the baby’s blood. This can cause the baby to get very sick or even die. This is called hemolytic disease of the newborn or HDN. 
“The mother’s blood reacts to the child’s blood as if it were harmful and foreign. It, therefore, creates antibodies to fight it out of its system. This is what is medically called Rhesus Factor Incompatibility,” adds Dr. Ndoboli. Consequently, once the baby’s Rh+ comes in contact with the woman Rh- during delivery, the antibodies are immediately activated by the woman’s body’s immune system. 
Blood group Kato urges everyone especially women to know their blood group as this makes a great difference. “If you are negative, and the baby’s father is positive, then it is important to test the baby’s blood immediately after the delivery so that the mother can receive an Antibody Against D Antigen (ANTI-D) injection,” Kato advises. 
If a Rhesus negative woman has a miscarriage or any invasive prenatal testing and there is any maternal/foetal blood mixing then she will also have to get an injection of ANTI-D too. In case the woman does not get this injection the woman would keep having miscarriages because the activated antibodies would see subsequent Rh+ pregnancies as foreign bodies and would keep fighting and taking them off.Dr Ndoboli says the injection called Rhogam is not readily available in most clinics although it is easily accessible on the market. “The reason most facilities do not stock it is because these cases are rare and from a business point, it does not make sense having something needed rare,” he explains. 
Cost of tests It is normally administered 28 weeks into pregnancy, 72 hours after delivery, after ectopic pregnancy, miscarriage or abortion. It costs between Shs80,000 and Shs200,000 depending on the medical facility. Recommended dosage is usually three injections. It should also be noted that a Rh– person (man or woman) cannot receive blood donation from a Rh+ person even if they have the same blood group. The consequence of such blood transfusion is fatal. It would lead to death as the blood would clot. This is due to the incompatibility in their Rhesus factor. 
Dr Ndoboli observes that cases of Rh incompatibility are becoming more common these days. He believes the increment could be due to the easily available tests and quick diagnosis from medical personnel. “These days it is very easy to do your blood grouping. Just enter any facility and you will have your results in 10 minutes,” he observes. 
Symptoms of Rh incompatibility Your unborn baby’s symptoms can range from mild to life-threatening. When your antibodies attack your baby’s red blood cells, hemolytic disease can occur. This means your baby’s red blood cells are destroyed.When your baby’s healthy red blood cells are destroyed, bilirubin will build up in their bloodstream. Bilirubin is a chemical that is created from the breakdown of red blood cells. Too much bilirubin is a sign that the liver, which is responsible for processing old blood cells, is having trouble. 
Your baby may have one or more of the following symptoms if their bilirubin levels are high after birth:• Yellowing of the skin and whites of the eyes, which is called jaundice.• Low muscle toneThese symptoms will subside once treatment for the Rh incompatibility is completed. 
Facts about Rh according to thrombocyte.com People with the Rh negative blood type are more prone to allergies, especially food allergies. This results in having them being pickier when it comes to food preferences.Studies show that the 15 per cent of humans who lack the Rhesus factor are gifted with natural resistance to HIV, small pox and bubonic plague. By being resistant to these diseases, it means that they are less susceptible to suffer from them as opposed to those with the Rhesus factor. 
It is assumed that Rhesus negative blood type is specific to group O which is the purest type of blood and the rarest. It is still unknown to date where the negative factor came from. There is a theory that tells it is a product of connected bloodline from prehistoric humans to present day people. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com