Tuesday March 27 2018 How that commute is hurting your health There is a lot of activity while travelling in public means that instead of feeling refreshed, you get to work tired. File photo In Summary For most people, the long journey to and from work is a daily experience. In addition to the inescapable traffic jams, the noise and potential accidents are enough to affect anyone’s mental and physical health. Advertisement By Carolyne B. Atangaza 
A recent study by the University of Cambridge reveals that long journeys (1hr-1 and 30 minutes) are potential causes of obesity, high blood pressure, sleeplessness, unproductivity and general unhappiness. According to the study, 33 per cent of people who travel long distances are more likely to suffer from depression, 37 per cent more likely to have financial worries and 12 per cent more likely to report multiple aspects of work-related stress. 
Clementine Kayondo, a teacher at Queen Anne Nursery and Primary school in Namuwongo, a Kampala suburb, says she spends on average five hours every day travelling to and from work. Kayondo, who resides in Sonde, a suburb of Kira Municipality, leaves home at 5am on weekdays in order to reach her place of work at 7am. “Apart from the snail-paced traffic flow, there are men who sit while spreading their legs, the nosy who peep at your texts and those who refuse to give you space when you want to get off. By the time I get off the taxi I am so enraged that it takes me a while to calm down,” relates Kayondo. 
Anxiety Dr David Basangwa, the executive director of Butabika Hospital, says being cooped up in a taxi for long journeys generates anxiety among travellers. “This comes from thoughts of being late, costs involved and thoughts of missed opportunities while stuck in jam,” explains Dr Basangwa. He adds that when anxiety is experienced over and over again, then one could develop stress-related illnesses such memory impairment, depression, skin conditions, such as eczema, difficulty sleeping, obesity, heart disease and digestive problems, among others. 
Anger and rage Psychologist Evelyne Kharono Lufafa says travellers may experience feelings of anger and rage triggered by lack of control. “When you are forced to sit in the same position for a long period such as what happens when there is traffic jam, your body perceives this as being trapped triggering the fight or flight response,” Lufafa says. Brian Lumu describes his journeys to and from work as torture. “Have you ever noticed how hyper taxi conductors and drivers are in the morning when one needs some peace and quiet? They will shout greetings at each other, comment on every news item and tune to the most annoying talk shows,” Lumu relates. 
He says on more than one occasion, he has left the taxi with a raging headache caused by a combination of noise and smells from fellow passengers’ perfumes and colognes. According to psychologists, loud music can intensify stress often leading to road rage because the individual’s senses become super-heightened and they become less rational. 
Diseases Dr George Bwesigye, a general practitioner at Najjera Hospital, says public transportation is likely to be a source of airborne diseases such as chickenpox, influenza, measles, smallpox, and tuberculosis among others. “Airborne diseases are transmitted through coughs, sneezes, talks, spewing nasal and throat secretions that release tiny pathogens in the air. Sitting in a congested taxi with poor aeration increases chances of infection if there are disease carrying passengers on board,” Dr. Bwesigye explains. 
He adds that there are also chances of getting infections that spread through sweat and body contact such as Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, a bacterium that causes sores and boils on the skin and severe infections in the bloodstream, lungs, or the urinary tract commonly known as MRSA. There is also danger of getting Herpes (HSV-1 and HSV-2), Hepatitis A, B and C.“Simply put the longer you sit squashed together with an infected person the more their sweat is likely to get to you resulting into an infection,” Dr Bwesigye adds. 
How to cope according to urbandesignmentalhealth.com 
• Block out the white noise with your own soothing music or engaging podcasts. • Read a book or even take up meditation to help you be more mindful.• Set a positive intention such as not honk at anyone or getting bothered by the traffic. • Curb panic and anxiety with exercises such as deep-breathing. Take a couple of deep breaths, raise your shoulders toward your ears, then lower them. Do this for five to 10 cycles • Explore other routes to work that may offer fewer hassles and be quicker. Remember it is not the length of your commute itself that takes the toll; it is the length of time you spend fighting it that costs you.• Start early to avoid anxiety of arriving late. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com