Eat these foods for a healthy liver Eat these foods for a healthy liver In Summary Given our lifestyle choices, such as consuming too much alcohol, not eating healthy, and not keeping fit, the liver is overworked, leading to many complications such as hepatitis and liver failure. You can avoid these or reduce the symptoms by eating foods that heal and cleanse the liver. Advertisement By BEATRICE NAKIBUUKA 
The liver is a very important organ in the body. Its main function is to filter the blood coming from the digestive tract, before passing it to the rest of the body. It also helps to break down food through the production of bile; it is a store place for glycogen, vitamins and minerals; helps in the metabolism of fats, proteins, and carbohydrates. 
Antioxidants Foods that are rich in antioxidants such as Vitamins C , E, A, carotenoid, help detoxify the liver by controlling the accumulation of free radicals in the body, resulting from oxidative reactions. Vegetables such as spinach, lettuce, Amaranth (doodo), tomatoes, green peppers, onions, and garlic, among others are good antioxidants.Garlic has the ability to activate liver enzymes that help your body flush out toxins. It also contains allicin and selenium. These natural compounds cleanse the liver. Turmeric is the liver’s favourite spice as it boosts liver detoxification by assisting enzymes that actively flush out dietary toxins. 
Vegetables Lilian Nyanzi, a Nutrition Research Associate in Bukoto, says vegetables are one of the most powerful liver cleansing allies. They can be eaten raw, steamed or juiced. Since they have a distinct ability to neutralise heavy metals, chemicals, and pesticides, vegetables offer a powerful protective mechanism for the liver.“Incorporating leafy vegetables into the diet increases the production and flow of bile, a substance that removes wastes from the blood,” out toxins. 
Fruits Joshua Ssozi, a nutritionist at Makerere Department of Food and Health Sciences, says: “Grape fruits are rich in vitamin C and antioxidants. Citrus fruits such as grapefruit, oranges, limes, and lemons support the natural cleansing abilities of the liver. Their juice can boost production of the liver detoxification enzymes that help flush out carcinogens and other toxins.”Ssozi adds that avocados are nutrient-dense foods that help the body produce glutathione, a compound that is necessary for the liver to cleanse harmful toxins. “Blueberries contain polyphenols that may help protect you against nonalcoholic fatty liver disease, which often goes hand in hand with obesity and high cholesterol,” he adds. 
Avoid junk Nyanzi warns that chips, burgers and baked foods usually contain a lot of sugar, salt and oil and are a poor choice to keep the liver healthy. Over time, the liver fails to do its cleansing job, which may lead to inflammation and later scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). Sweet things should be an occasional treat for your liver because too much sugar is harmful. The liver converts it into fat, which is stored around the liver. This often develops into fatty liver disease.Nyanzi says, “Alcohol wrecks your liver and over time, it can lead to cirrhosis. Drinking water instead of sweetened drinks such as sodas or energy drinks and alcohol is recommended for a healthy liver. Green tea contains plant-based antioxidants which support proper functioning of the liver.” 
Caution Nyanzi cautions you to only take medication under prescription to avoid accumulation of toxins in the body. Restrain from self-medication and use of over- counter drugs. Avoid alcohol, beers, spirits and wine because excessive consumption results into fatty liver disease, which could pose a threat to one’s health. 
Symptoms • You develop jaundice (skin and eyes appear yellow).• Swelling in the legs and ankles, tendency to bruise easily.• Dark urine colour, bloody or tar-colored stool.• Chronic fatigue, nausea or vomiting, loss of appetite. 
bnakibuuka@ug.nationmedia.com