Tuesday March 27 2018 Running to boost love for Maths Participants in the Run for Maths at Kyambogo University ground last week. The marathon was to mark the International Day of Mathematics on March 14. Photo by Godfrey Lugaaju In Summary Following the annual International day of Mathematics on March 14, Uganda Women Mathematicians held the ‘Run for Maths’ Marathon at Kyambogo University where female mathematics students from various secondary schools and universities participated in the 9.5Km run. Dr Hasifa Nampala says the run was an outreach activity to promote the subject in secondary schools and to forge a way on what needs to be done to promote it. Advertisement By Desire Mbabaali 
Fahima Mukalazi Namutebi, a Senior Four student at Nabisunsa Girl’s School, said she is fully convinced that Maths is a passable subject.“I personally do not think that Maths is difficult. One just needs to practice, and instill it in their minds that it is actually not hard,” she says. Though she admits to failing the subject on several occasions, she never gives up. 
“I have for example ever got very low marks, but with practice - doing about five numbers a day, consultation and continued love for the subject even when I had failed helped me improve,” Namutebi shares. “I now plan to have Maths in my combination at A-Level; Physics, Art, Maths and ICT. My best score so far has been 95 per cent,” she adds. In agreement with Namutebi is Joanitah Birungi, a Second Year Bachelor of Statistics student of Makerere University. “I can confidently say that when you determine to do something, no matter how complex other people may say it is, you make it,” she says. 
“I always saw myself pursuing a Maths-related discipline. However, people discouraged me at every point. Some thought it was because I was still young, that things would become harder the higher I climbed, but here I am,” Birungi prides. Though things got tougher, she got tougher too and gradually, her dream is being realised. 
“In the move to change student’s attitudes towards maths, other people such as parents, friends, relatives, teachers ought to join the struggle too because these are our mentors, motivators, and often contribute a lot to what we eventually become,” Birungi notesSpeaking on behalf of Parliament Speaker Rebecca Kadaga, the guest of honour at the Run for math marathon, Gabriel Gadison Ajedra, State minister for Finance and general duties said, “For those studying Mathematics, it is not merely hard work. Hard work will push you over, but attitude will reward you. I for example would not go to bed without finding a solution to a problem.” 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com