In-laws, priest in bitter fight over children In Summary Condition. Rev Ariko says he put conditions upon which his wife is supposed to have access to the children. Snatched. Last Saturday, the inlaws, led by Mr Ewou allegedly snatched the children in the presence of their father. Advertisement By SIMON PETER EMWAMU 
Soroti. A controversy surrounding the alleged kidnap of two children of a reverend in Soroti Diocese has come to light as in-laws claim they took them away because they were sick and poorly looked after. 
Last Saturday, Rev Paul Ariko reported a case of kidnap of Ruth Shalom Achero,6, and Shama Aminat ,4, by unknown people. 
After Daily Monitor published the story, Mr Sam Ewou, a brother-in-law to Rev Ariko responded, saying the children were in his custody. “Rev Ariko married my sister who is an employee of Makerere University. The two have been estranged from each other for the last three to four years. Whenever meetings have been held he emphatically tells family members not to even refer to my sister as his wife,” he alleged. 
He added: “In May 2016 he lured my sister into going with the children to their matrimonial home in Otucopi. I dropped her off but he then threatened to harm her with a hoe, she fled leaving the children. Since then he has adamantly refused her to see them.”Mr Ewou revealed that on Saturday, together with his other four cousins, he drove to Rev Ariko’s home in Otucopi, Soroti Town and found him working in his orchard.He alleges that when asked to release the children so that they can see a doctor, Rev Ariko refused and it’s at this point that they snatched them. 
What the inlaws say Mr Ewou said they first took the children to Soroti Main Police Station before heading to Owen Clinic for medical tests.“The children have since been reunited with their mother, awaiting further legal action,” Mr Ewou said. 
But Rev Ariko insists that his children were kidnapped.“I have repeatedly tried calling their mother to confirm to me whether the children are in her custody but she has not answered my calls,” he said.He added: “The identity of the people who wrestled me and took my children are not known to me,” he explained. 
“The children were not sick as Ewou claims. I have dedicated all my energies to look after my daughters, who is Ewou to claim that they were neglected, is he their mother?” Rev Ariko reiterated. He alleged that his wife left the children at a tender age and that he has been playing all the parenting roles by himself. 
Rev Ariko told Daily Monitor that on March 10, when the mother of the children came asking for them, they agreement that required her to put her request in writing and failure to do so she would not have any access.He has, however, promised to deal with Mr Ewou in court adding that he has already failed the case with police. 
Mr Micheal Odongo, the East Kyoga police public relations officer, told Daily Monitor that a case of element will be preferred on the in-laws.Mr Odongo said they received information regarding the whereabouts of the children. “The other issue, our investigation team has found, is there is a misunderstanding between the priest and the wife over ownership of the children,” he said. 
Background Separated. According to the inlwas, Rev Ariko and his wife have been separated for close to four years. Condition. Rev Ariko says he put conditions upon which his wife is supposed to have access to the children. Snatched. Last Saturday, the inlaws, led by Mr Ewou allegedly snatched the children in the presence of their father. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com