Tuesday March 27 2018 Police deny priest’s family postmortem report Police then moved the casket carrying the deceased’s remains to Mbale Municipal Mortuary for an autopsy as ordered by court following a successful application by his elder brother, Mr Clement Bwayo. FILE PHOTO In Summary Concern. The family wonder why the police are reluctant to give them the postmortem report even when they were the ones that applied for exhumation of their brother’s remains because they were not satisfied with the reasons indicated on a death certificate that accompanied the body. Advertisement By MISAIRI THEMBO KAHUNGU 
KAMPALA. The family of the late Rev Fr Peter Kasooli Bwayo, who died in the United States in June 2014, has raised the red flag after police reportedly denied them access to the postmortem report, five days after pathologists exhumed his body. 
Acting on the orders of the Mbale Grade One Magistrate’s Court, last Wednesday the Police Director of Medical Services, Dr Moses Byaruhanga, exhumed Fr Bwayo’s remains from the cemetery in Bwikhonge Village, Bulambuli Town Council in Bulambuli District.Police then moved the casket carrying the deceased’s remains to Mbale Municipal Mortuary for an autopsy as ordered by court following a successful application by his elder brother, Mr Clement Bwayo. 
After examining the body that was curiously found still fresh after nearly four years since it was buried, Dr Byaruhanga said his report into what caused the Catholic priest’s death would be out in two days’ time. 
Daily Monitor has been informed that Mr Sisye Kirya, the head of the Elgon region criminal investigations department, signed for the postmortem report from the CID headquarters in Kibuli, Kampla on Friday, but has since denied the family access to the contents therein.“On Friday we were in Kampala thinking the doctor would give us our copy of the report but we were told the regional CID, Mr Kirya, had signed for it as an investigation officer and would brief us. But when we contacted him, he referred us to the CID headquarters where we would be given our copy,” Mr Bwayo said yesterday. 
He said when he and the deceased’s next of kin, Mr Mathew Bwayo, reached Kibuli, the deputy CID director, Mr Joseph Obwana, told them two wait for two weeks for a full report because the pathologist only submitted a “preliminary” report.The body continues to lie in the mortuary, with the family not set to rebury until the results of the postmortem are known. 
Police response Efforts to get a comment from CID headquarters were futile as Mr Obwana did not answer our repeated calls and neither did he respond to our phone text message queries. CID spokesperson Vincent Sekate also did not answer our repeated calls.But Dr Byaruhanga confirmed to this newspaper in a telephone interview that he had submitted a full report which was signed for by Mr Kirya last Friday. 
He, however, declined to reveal the details of the report.“I finished the report and there is no any other report unless if the family is still interested in DNA tests, then I would take Mathew (Bwayo) to the government laboratory on April 3 as I had told them when I left Mbale. The report was given to Kirya (regional CID officer) as the investigating officer and he is at liberty to disclose to the family,” Dr Byaruhanga said. 
When contacted, Mr Kirya, the Elgon region CID boss, confirmed receiving the report from Dr Byaruhanga, adding that he handed it over to Mr Obwana.“I picked up the report on Friday and took it to the deputy director CID who had assigned me. The family is not supposed to get the results but can buy the police report if they want,” Mr Kirya said. 
Family demand Concern. The family wonder why the police are reluctant to give them the postmortem report even when they were the ones that applied for exhumation of their brother’s remains because they were not satisfied with the reasons indicated on a death certificate that accompanied the body. 
To govt. They now want the Executive to take over the matter and seek the intervention of the US government since the deceased had acquired American citizenship before he died. 
mkthembo@ug.nationmedia.com