Tuesday March 27 2018 Nuwagaba, Komugisha steal show at Stanbic Bank February Mug Good game. Stanbic’s Cook (R) hands over the February Mug to Nuwagaba. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary Other winners on the good golfing day for the oldest competition in Uganda were Ibra Bagalana (men’s Group A winner) with 72 nett and former Mbarara Sports Club Lady Captain Edrae Kagombe who returned 74 nett to scoop the ladies’ Group B honours by two shots. Rossette Tugume (76) finished second. Advertisement By INNOCENT NDAWULA 
KAMPALA. Paul Nuwagaba played his best round of golf in a while to emerge Stanbic Bank February Mug overall winner with an immaculate score of 65 nett. 
Playing off handicap 12, Nuwagaba was in good nick as he finished with an equally competitive gross score of 77 at the par-72 Uganda Golf Club (UGC) Kitante course on March 24. 
The Kitante course has, lately, been a haven for many corporate and social golfers because of the pristine conditions it is in and Nuwagaba’s time couldn’t have been better to snatch a podium finish. 
And as he picked his Mug from Stanbic Bank’s Head Business Banking Wayne Cook, Nuwagaba had even more reasons to make merry as he will now play off a new status – handicap 10.But it wasn’t only Nuwagaba’s star shining on the day as Judith Komugisha (66 nett) missed out on the overall honours by one shot. 
Komugisha, playing off handicap 11, carded 66 nett to send out a strong and positive reminder to the national ladies golf team selectors that she wants in this year. 
Her consolation was taking the ladies Group A Mug. Men’s Group C and B winners Joel Kakira and Anthony Agaba returned below 70 scores of 67 nett and 69 nett respectively. 
Other winners on the good golfing day for the oldest competition in Uganda were Ibra Bagalana (men’s Group A winner) with 72 nett and former Mbarara Sports Club Lady Captain Edrae Kagombe who returned 74 nett to scoop the ladies’ Group B honours by two shots. Rossette Tugume (76) finished second. 
indawula@ug.nationmedia.com