I want to see all children grow up happy Aggrey Ategeka, the project director at Rwenjeru Child Development Centre Advertisement By Zadock Amanyisa 
Aggrey Ategeka, 27, is the project director at Rwenjeru Child Development Centre, a Compassion International project in Bushenyi Town. He studied Business Administration.“I started school in 1997 at seven years of age. When I was in Primary Six, I lost my father and although life was not easy after that, I completed Primary Seven. Most of my father’s property had been sold to save him in vain. After his death, my relatives wanted me to start training as a carpenter at a nearby workshop yet I had performed well in PLE. 
My step mother, however, managed to raise my school fees and I joined St Kaggwa Bushenyi High School for Senior One. I faced a lot of turbulent times during O-Level including my Uganda Certificate of Education results being held by the school for failure to clear fees yet I had scored second grade. 
By that time I was close to the church and was good at playing the keyboard. Because of this, I attracted a good Samaritan Sr Ephrance Nuwamanya who took me up under her organisation, Bushenyi Integrated Rural Health Development and paid my school fees until I completed Senior Six emerging the best candidate at Ryakasinga CHE. At Kampala International University, I was sponsored under the constituency development scheme and in 2014, I graduated with a Bachelor’s in Business Administration, specialising in accounting. 
That same year, I was taken up as an enrollment officer in the national ID project but that job was short-lived. I thereafter joined Pride Microfinance as a sales officer, a job I left in 2015 and started serving in child ministry as an officer in charge of sponsorships and donations.I was this year promoted to the post of project director, something I did not look at as a mere job opportunity but an opportunity to advocate for vulnerable children. 
My passion resides in gazing at an economically and spiritually empowered community. I have gained big networks with big people who have connected me to places. Basing on what I experienced while growing up, I want to see children get transformed into responsible mature citizens. I love children and I want them to see their future. Every child has a right to life.” advertisement