Religious leaders should help followers overcome challenges Advertisement By Starin Musiimenta 
The cardinal role of church leaders is to fulfil the great commission Jesus Christ left for us, that is to preach the gospel to the world (Matthew 28:19). Appreciation goes to most religious leaders who have continued to do this work in our country. For instance, in last year’s bishop’s pastoral visits, 1,311 Christians accepted Christ as their personal saviour. 
Among these, 23 females attempted to commit suicide due to family problems, including domestic violence, 18 females attempted to kill their husbands as a result of domestic violence, five males killed people and were convicted and confessed, two girls attempted to take their lives as aresult of stress. 
In addition to their core work, they should also find solutions to some of the problems their flock face. While interacting with Christians, they should identify people’s problems and look for measures to address them where possible. This is what Jesus Christ did (Matthew 14:13-21). He identified problems people were facing and provided a solutions to them. 
Most Ugandans today face problems such as poverty, unemployment, domestic violence, poor hygiene, and education challenges, among others. Uganda Bureau of Statistic (Ubos) in its report dubbed Uganda National Household Survey 2016/17, shows that people living in poverty now stand at 10 million (27 per cent). Moreover, 84.5 per cent of the population in the country are Christians according to the 2014 Population Census. 
Save for miracles that most Pentecostal churches proclaim, there should be practical means of solving the challenges Christians face. Offering solutions should not be left to government alone. Religious leaders in their teachings should help Christians to overcome the challenges they face. 
While addressing the Annual General Meeting of Ankole Diocese Millennium Sacco on March 20, Bishop Fred Sheldon Mwesigwa said the aim of the Sacco was to provide financial services to all the people. The bishop said when people are poor, the church is also poor and when Christians are financially okay, the church also gets better. This Sacco was started in 2013 by Ankole Diocese and it now has more than 6,000 members with a loan portfolio of between Shs1.4 billion and Shs1.8 billion. 
The Sacco has helped people get loans at low rates to pay school fees, operate businesses, and agriculture, among others. This highlights the importance of the church in community development. 
How I wish that every church or religious institution would emulate the Ankole Diocese model to uplift the lives of our people. Starin Musiimenta,