FDC asks clergy to deny audience to pro-age limit MPs FDC spokesman Ibrahim Ssemujju Nganda addressing journalists at a past event. FILE PHOTO In Summary Addressing the media in their weekly press conference, FDC spokesman Ibrahim Ssemujju Nganda said church leaders should treat the MPs as any social sinners who need urgent repentance. During the recent row to have article 103b changed to scrap age limit, the Archbishop of Gulu, John Baptist Odama came out strongly to caution the President Museveni against appending his signature on the Constitution Amendment Bill 2017 that had been passed by Parliament. Advertisement By DERRICK WANDERA 
Forum for Democratic Change (FDC) has asked church leaders to deny the 317 Members of Parliament who supported the amendment of article 103b a chance to speak on church pulpits. 
Addressing the media in their weekly press conference, FDC spokesman Ibrahim Ssemujju Nganda said church leaders should treat the MPs as any social sinners who need urgent repentance. “We continue to plead to the church leaders not to relent on their demand for a peaceful transfer of power from (President) Museveni to another person for which they have attracted a lot of criticism,” Mr Ssemujju said. In the recent past, both the Catholic Church and Church of Uganda have come out strongly against the amendment of Uganda Constitution. 
During the recent row to have article 103b changed to scrap age limit, the Archbishop of Gulu, John Baptist Odama came out strongly to caution the President Museveni against appending his signature on the Constitution Amendment Bill 2017 that had been passed by Parliament.Archbishop Odama said if President Museveni signed the Bill knowing that it was passed without the views of the majority of Ugandans, he [Museveni] will be tormented by his conscience.The president, however, came out to warn the church against getting involved into politics and advised them to mind their business. 
Mr Ssemujju said the pro-age limit MPs should be shunned and not given any chance to speak but they should be called to apologise before the congregations. “They have set this country on a new trajectory of uncertainty. We think this Easter the church should mean what they said. They should deny them front sits during this Easter period,” he said. Mr Ssemujju also said that this Easter season the MPs have to pay for their sins of crucifying the country just as Jesus was. advertisement