Why BoU Governor cannot succumb to IGG’s directives Advertisement By Peter Mulira 
I know the Inspector of General Government, Irene Mulyagonja, as a fearless and objective person having worked with her in my chambers for more than five years. Currently, she is working in an unclear legal regime governing the Inspectorate of Government as her differences with the Governor of Bank of Uganda illustrates. 
According to newspaper reports, the Inspectorate of Government pursuant to Article 230 of the Constitution, directed the Governor of Bank of Uganda to reverse a decision to transfer some of his staff while the Inspectorate carried out investigations into the bona fides of the Governor’s. This has not gone down well with the Governor, who is resistant to the directive. 
The public spat which has broken out between the Governor and the IGG can only be resolved through a proper interpretation of Article 230 in conjunction with other articles of the Constitution. 
In interpreting the Constitution, the whole of it is taken as an organic document in which the interpretation of one article may be governed by another article. In this sense, Article 225(e), which gives the Inspectorate of Government power to investigate public officers is relevant to Article 230. 
This article provides that the functions of the Inspectorate of Government shall include the power to “investigate any act, omission, advice, decision or recommendation of a public officer or any other authority to which this article applies…” 
For better carrying out its functions, Article 230(1) gives the Inspectorate of Government power to investigate, cause investigation, arrest cause arrest, prosecute cause prosecution in respect of cases involving corruption, abuse of authority or of public office. In addition, Article 230(2) gives the IGG, during the course of her duties, or as a consequence of his or her findings, power to make orders and give directions as are necessary and appropriate in the circumstances. 
The powers given to the Inspectorate and to the IGG are not executive powers and they are limited to enabling powers to carry out the functions set out in Article 225. 
As an example, such powers include the power to summon witnesses and to order for their arrest when they fail to turn up, the power to prosecute a public officer, who destroys evidence but cannot include power to prosecute offenses, which involve the requirement to prove in court what lawyers call mens rea or the intention to commit a crime. 
These powers are reserved for the Director of Public Prosecutions under Article 120 of the Constitution and can only be exercised by him following police investigations. In short the Inspectorate’s power to prosecute any person is qualified by Article 120.Secondly, Article 230 is not independent of Article 225(e), which limits the Inspectorate’s power to cases to which the article applies. Article 225(e)(e) does not apply to Article 162(2), which affirms the independence of the Bank of Uganda. The article reads: “In performing its functions, Bank of Uganda shall conform to this Constitution, but shall not be subject to the direction or control of any person or authority.” 
If the Governor of the Bank of Uganda were to succumb to the directives of the Inspectorate, he would be in breach of this provision of the Constitution. 
The IGG is equivalent to an Ombudsman in other countries, who has been described by a leading authority as not being in any way a court of appeal and that he or she cannot alter or reverse any government decision. The executive power to act on the Inspectorate of Government’s findings or recommendation is vested in the President under Article 231(40). Mr Mulira is a lawyer peter.mulira89@gmail.com