Rugwizangoga appointed Volkswagen Rwanda CEO   
Volkswagen Group South Africa has appointed Michaella Rugwizangoga as the Chief Executive Officer of Volkswagen Mobility Solutions Rwanda. According to a statement released on Monday, Rugwizangoga, a Chemical Engineer by profession enters Volkswagen with a wealth of strategic planning, project management and product development experience. 
As a World Economic Forum’s Global Shaper and an active member of the Kigali Hub, Rugwizangoga will be able to use her international experience and Rwandan heart to lead Volkswagen Mobility Solutions Rwanda to become an integrated part of Rwandan life, the statement says. “Being asked to start and run a new company from the ground up, whilst having the opportunity to implement a world first in mobility solutions for Volkswagen, is a challenge I relish and am looking forward to. The conducive local environment is also the ideal springboard for future expansions across the African continent,” she said. - Advertisement - 
At a media briefing in Kigali in January, Thomas Schaefer, Chairman and Managing Director of Volkswagen Group South Africa announced the registration of Volkswagen Mobility Solutions Rwanda and the introduction of the integrated automotive mobility solution in Rwanda. This concept is a first for Rwanda and also a first for Volkswagen worldwide. 
“We welcome Michaella into the Volkswagen family and we know she will be a worthy asset to our company. Rwanda’s forward thinking attitude to technology and development is one of the reasons we saw potential in this country. I believe that the offerings we will be introducing together with the support of Volkswagen partners and Michaella’s experience, will see our innovative mobility initiatives prove to be successful,” Said Thomas Schaefer. 
Volkswagen will launch it’s mobility solution including an assembly facility in Kigali by midyear. All the mobility services will be accessed by the custom developed App through which all bookings and payment will be made. Services will also be able to be booked online or via a hotline to cater for people who do not have a smartphone. VW South Africa will US invest $20 million in Rwanda during phase one of the integrated automotive mobility solutions. ///IGIHE