BRAC named 2018 NGO of the year Some of the members of BRAC at the BRAC Uganda offices. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary The ranking was done by NGO Advisor, an independent media organization based in Geneva. The three pillars of the methodology used in rankings are; innovation, impact and governance. BRAC is ranked alongside Médecins Sans Frontières, also known as Doctors Without Borders; the Danish Refugee Council; the Skoll Foundation and Ashoka, both of which support and enable social entrepreneurship worldwide. Advertisement By SERESTINO TUSINGWIRE 
BRAC, an international development organisation that deals in developing cost-effective, evidence-based programmes in conflict-prone and post-disaster settings, was on March 26 ranked the number one NGO in the world for 2018. The ranking was done by NGO Advisor, an independent media organization based in Geneva. BRAC took the top spot for the third year in a row as part of the 2018 top 500 NGOs World rankings.“We are deeply honoured to be ranked as the Top Global NGO for the third consecutive year,” said BRAC Founder and Chairperson, Sir Fazle Hasan Abed. “This accolade belongs to all BRAC staff for championing the BRAC values of integrity, innovation, inclusiveness and effectiveness in everything we do,” he added.This marks the fourth time in five years that BRAC has earned the number one ranking.NGO Advisor releases the top 500 NGOs World rankings each year to highlight outstanding organisations in the nonprofit sector. It conducts exhaustive research, evaluates hundreds of NGOs against a rigorous set of criteria, and ranks these organisations according to a robust methodology. The three pillars of the methodology used in rankings are; innovation, impact and governance. Founded in Bangladesh in 1972, it is currently active in 11 countries. BRAC also has a branch in Uganda and has played a big role in improving the living standards of many Ugandans, most especially girls.Established in 2006, BRAC Uganda is engaged in microfinance, small enterprise, education, agriculture, livestock and poultry, health and adolescent empowerment in the country.BRAC has an annual global expenditure exceeding $1 billion. “BRAC goes beyond the traditional NGO definition and has a unique, integrated model to drive positive social change, including development programmes, social enterprises, investments and university,” said Dr. Muhammad Musa, Executive Director of BRAC.BRAC is ranked alongside Médecins Sans Frontières, also known as Doctors Without Borders; the Danish Refugee Council; the Skoll Foundation and Ashoka, both of which support and enable social entrepreneurship worldwide. advertisement