Crime preventers boss arrested over robbery Mr Mayanja and some of his fellow crime preventers. COURTESY PHOTO In Summary It is alleged that at about 3am on March 10, a group of unidentified assailants attacked Patrick Businge, a guard attached to Anka security services. The victim was found in the morning unconscious lying in a pool of blood. Mr Mayanja was summoned to Police to make a statement however shortly after packing his car at the police station, operatives attached to the Police flying squad surrounded him and declared that he had been put under arrest. Advertisement By FRANCIS MUGERWA 
The Bunyoro Regional coordinator for Crime preventers has been arrested over allegations of aggravated robbery.According to Police, Mr Peter Mayanja has been arrested over suspicion that he participated in snatching a gun from a private security guard.“He has been arrested with three others and they are helping us in our investigations that are aimed at recovering the riffle that was stolen from a private guard,” Mr Julius Hakiza, the Albertine regional police spokesperson told the press on Monday. 
It is alleged that at about 3am on March 10, a group of unidentified assailants attacked Patrick Businge, a guard attached to Anka security services. 
According to Police, the attackers assaulted Businge who was guarding at Care Auto-mobile located opposite Total petrol station in Kiryateete suburb of Hoima town.Detectives say after leaving the guard in coma, the attackers fled with his riffle registration number UG POL 67740P 7865. 
The victim was found in the morning unconscious lying in a pool of blood. He was rushed to Hoima regional referral hospital where he received treatment. Eight suspects were arrested in connection with the incident.Businge was last week discharged from hospital where he nursed grave injuries on his head.He recorded a statement at Hoima central police station where he claimed to have identified the crime preventers that attacked him. 
Mr Mayanja was summoned to Police to make a statement however shortly after packing his car at the police station, operatives attached to the Police flying squad surrounded him and declared that he had been put under arrest.According to eye witnesses, he protested and made frantic calls to his superiors but the operatives insisted and led him into the police cells. 
Mayanja has reportedly denied the accusations labeled against him. He claims that the accusations against him are baseless and falsehoods that are aimed at tainting his good image, a detective involved in the investigation has said. 
Hakiza said Mr Mayanja, 39, the Albertine regional crime preventer was arrested along with Mr Rasalo Asaba, 38, a crime preventer, Aliguma Hosiah, 41, a crime preventer and Mr Tegras Timanyire, 52, a mechanic.“They have all been charged with aggravated robbery. We have referred the file to the resident state attorney for perusal and advice” Hakiza said.He said they will appear in court for prosecution once their file is sanctioned.The matter is being investigated under HMA 446/2018. advertisement