Tuesday March 27 2018 Acid attack survivors storm court over release of suspect Aggrieved. Acid attack survivors address journalists at Nakawa Magistrate’s Court in Kampala yesterday. PHOTO BY STEPHEN OTAGE In Summary On March 17, Ms Angole testified that after the loss of her husband in 2011, Mr Kazungu approached her, claiming to have been her late husband’s best friend and even offered to help her with the feeding and education of her three children. Court heard that in 2014, Ms Angole started living with Mr Kazungu in Kirinya, Bweyogerere, but he failed in his responsibilities on top of having extra-marital affairs. Advertisement By Juliet Kigongo 
Kampala. Acid attack survivors yesterday protested at the Nakawa Chief Magistrate’s Court over the release on bail of a Kyambogo University lecturer, Mr James Kazungu Alupo, who is accused of pouring acid on his wife’s face. 
The victims, who were dressed in white T-shirts with writings, “Together for an avid free Violence Uganda”, said much as bail is a constitutional right, granting bail to the suspect exposes them as victims to danger because their perpetrators are on the loose.The group, while demanding for the immediate cancelation of Mr Alupo’s bail, tasked government to regulate the buying and selling of acid and other toxic substances. 
“Although the Prevention of Acid Attacks Bill has not yet been tabled in Parliament, as victims we are not satisfied with the way our cases are handled. When our perpetrators are granted bail, we leave in fear as they keep threatening,” said Ms Linnet Kirungi, the programmes officer at End Acid Violence Uganda, a local NGO. 
Prosecution led by Ms Anne Ntimba presented two witnesses, Mr Emmanuel Ojura (neighbour), and Ms Grace Amule (shop attendant) who pinned Mr Kazungu before the court for pouring acid on his wife, Ms Judith Angole Dirisi in October last year. 
Court heard that after acid was poured on Ms Angole’s body, she rushed to her neighbour’s door, crying for help while saying: “Kazungu has killed me, he has poured something on me”, before she was taken to hospital. 
Mr Alupo, who teaches at the Faculty of Civil Engineering, faces two charges of domestic violence and attempted murder of Ms Angole, who was an accountant with Africa Innovations Institute. 
Prosecution charge On March 17, Ms Angole testified that after the loss of her husband in 2011, Mr Kazungu approached her, claiming to have been her late husband’s best friend and even offered to help her with the feeding and education of her three children. Court heard that in 2014, Ms Angole started living with Mr Kazungu in Kirinya, Bweyogerere, but he failed in his responsibilities on top of having extra-marital affairs. That on the fateful day on October, she opted to end the affair and move out of the house but Mr Kazungu claimed to still love her and asked her for another chance. 
“On that day at about mid-night, I came back home from my supermarket in Kireka and as I was entering the house, I saw Kazungu standing behind me. However, on turning to talk to him, he poured acid on my face that has since turned me blind and disfigured my entire face, breast , thigh and arm,” Ms Angole told court. The case has been adjourned to April 18 for further hearing. jkigongo@ug.nationmedia.com