Crime preventers boss, two others arrested over robbery March 27, 2018 Arrested: Peter Mayanja, the Bunyoro Regional coordinator for Crime preventers - Advertisement - 
Peter Mayanja, the Bunyoro Regional coordinator for Crime preventers has been arrested over allegations of aggravated robbery. Police says the suspect was arrested over suspicion that he participated in stealing a gun from a private security guard. 
Julius Hakiza, the Albertine regional police spokesperson told journalist on Monday that Mayanja, 39, was arrested along with Rasalo Asaba, 38, a crime preventer, Aliguma Hosiah, 41, a crime preventer and Mr Tegras Timanyire, 52, a mechanic. It is alleged that at about 3am on March 10, unidentified assailants attacked Patrick Businge while on duty. The attackers assaulted Businge leaving him in coma, before they fled with his riffle registration number UG POL 67740P 7865. - Advertisement - 
Businge was last week discharged from hospital. He recorded a statement at Hoima central police station where he claimed to have identified the crime preventers that attacked him, prompting police to arrest the named crime preventers. This is not the first time, crime preventers have been linked to crime. June last year, Police in Ibanda arrested the coordinator of crime preventers in Ibanda on robbery charges. Baguma Savino commonly known as “Cobra” was arrested by a group of Boda Boda cyclists who handed him over to Ibanda police. He and three others allegedly robbed sh3.4m from Bwengye Robert at Shelter lodges in Ibanda town. 
In the same month, Police at Butenga in Bukomansimbi district arrested John Kawooya [ a crime preventer] for allegedly stealing coffee beans from a residents’ plantation. Kawooya was arrested by a sniffer dog that led police to his home where suspected coffee beans were recovered. November 2017, Police in Aswa region arrested crime preventer for allegedly impersonating Gulu District Police Commander (DPC) with intent to extort money from the public. 
Loketo Lee, 35, a resident of Laroo division in Gulu municipality and a common figure at Gulu Central police station run out luck when he tried to con Charles Atube, a resident of Koro Lapainat in Omoro district. He allegedly approached and demanded for Shs 100,000 from Atube to ‘settle out’ his case at the police as the DPC. Crime Preventers organized and coordinated – National Crime Preventers Forum was founded on 9th June 2013 to promote community policing in Uganda in partnership with Uganda Police Force. - Advertisement -