BRAC named 2018 NGO of the year March 27, 2018 SONY DSC - Advertisement - 
BRAC, an international development organisation that deals in developing cost-effective, evidence-based programmes in conflict-prone and post-disaster settings, was on March 26 ranked the number one NGO in the world for 2018. The rankings that it is based on annual reports and financial statements for 2016, or at least a minimum of six months in 2016. 
The ranking was done by NGO Advisor, an independent media organization based in Geneva. BRAC took the top spot for the third year in a row as part of the 2018 top 500 NGOs World rankings. NGO Advisor releases the top 500 NGOs World rankings each year to highlight outstanding organisations in the nonprofit sector. “We are deeply honoured to be ranked as the Top Global NGO for the third consecutive year. This accolade belongs to all BRAC staff for championing the BRAC values of integrity, innovation, inclusiveness and effectiveness in everything we do,” said BRAC Founder and Chairperson, Sir Fazle Hasan Abed. - Advertisement - 
Known as the Ivy League of the nonprofit world, the Top 500 ranks NGOs and social impact organisation in order to showcase the best practices and newest ideas in the sector. The NGOs in this year’s ranking are more influential, more powerful, and more innovative than ever before. In the last ten years, NGOs have moved further and further from their origins as charity businesses and expanded into an increasingly diverse range of activities. Nonprofits are investing in social enterprise, cultivating academic expertise, and finding strategic ways to address urgent development crises around the world. 
The Top 500 NGOs is a unique ranking in the world of nonprofit evaluation, NGOs are scored based on a rigorous methodology. The three pillars of the methodology used in rankings are; innovation, impact and governance. 
Founded in Bangladesh in 1972, it is currently active in 11 countries. In Uganda Brac has played a big role in improving the living standards of many Ugandans, most especially girls. BRAC Uganda is engaged in microfinance, small enterprise, education, agriculture, livestock and poultry, health and adolescent empowerment in the country. 
Brac operations in Uganda have grown to 159 branches across 80 districts. We now have more than 213,072 microfinance members and 102 branches of the small enterprise programme - Advertisement -