What you need to know about new directives on SIM swaps, replacements A man updates his sim card registrations details using his National Identification Number. File Photo In Summary The new requirements include production of a valid police report, presentation of a letter from NIRA validating that a SIM card holder's national ID card is authentic, re-registration of the applicant for a SIM card by the telecommunications operator using biometrics and a passport photograph. Other guidelines are issuance of fresh SIM card registration form and ensuring that the SIM card holder shall be using the SIM card in a genuine type approved device. Advertisement By Monitor Correspondent 
Government through the Uganda Communications Commission (UCC) has issued new requirements for the SIM card swaps and replacements barely a month after it suspended the process. 
Early this month, UCC announced a ban on the application of new SIM cards and SIM swaps pending the installation of the Application Programming Interface (API) with the National Identification Registration Authority (NIRA).According to UCC, API is to ensure real time, accurate verification and validation of SIM card registration information by NIRA."However, to mitigate the exceptional circumstances being experienced after imposition of the ban, UCC has instituted interim measure under which SIM cards can now be swapped and/or replaced," the Commission’s spokesperson Ms Pamela Ankunda, said. 
The new requirements include production of a valid police report, presentation of a letter from NIRA validating that a SIM card holder's national ID card is authentic, re-registration of the applicant for a SIM card by the telecommunications operator using biometrics and a passport photograph. 
Other guidelines are issuance of fresh SIM card registration form and ensuring that the SIM card holder shall be using the SIM card in a genuine type approved device. 
"All telecommunications operators have been notified to issue SIM card swaps or replacement as per the directive communicated to them,” a statement by Ms Ankunda on March 27, 2018, reads in part. 
“NIRA verified every National Identification Number (NIN) in their system but some people used other people's NINs to register their phones. Now, we have empowered people to check how many numbers are registered against their NINs using the 197 code. If you have numbers you don't know, then the operator switches them off,” added Ms Ankunda. Related Stories