Tuesday March 27 2018 Demonstrations rock Bugabula Chiefdom over minister Namuganza’s attacks on Kyabazinga, Kadaga Demonstrators administer 40 strokes of the cane on the Lands State Minister, Persis Namuganza’s effigy. PHOTOS BY OPIO SAM CALEB In Summary The custodian of Busoga spirits, Mandwa Kagulu, said the spirits of Busoga are angered by Namuganza’s utterances against the Kyabazinga and Speaker Kadaga; and the only option left is for her is to seek cleansing and ask for forgiveness. Mr Muwanika informed Kyabazinga's subjects that Ms Namuganza’s actions were ‘subversive, divisive and meant to undermine Basoga’s unity’. Advertisement By OPIO SAM CALEB 
Residents of Bugabula Chiefdom which comprises of Kamuli and Buyende Districts on Tuesday demonstrated against the inflammatory remarks hurled at Kyabazinga William Nadiope Gabula IV and Speaker Rebecca Kadaga by the Lands State Minister, Persis Namuganza. 
While commissioning a borehole in Bukono County, Ivukula Sub-county in Namutumba District in February, Ms Namuganza allegedly incited her voters to stone the Kyabazinga on sight while she urged Speaker Kadaga to back off Nkono Chiefdom affairs and concentrate on fighting poverty and jiggers in Kamuli where she hails from. 
While carrying Ms Namuganza’s effigy - which they later ‘crucified’, ‘beat’ and ‘desecrated’ at Kamuli Municipal roundabout this afternoon - the demonstrators said Ms Namuganza risked becoming an 'outcast' if she doesn’t apologize to the two prominent figures from Busoga Sub-region. 
The procession which started at Kamuli Town ended at Gabula's palace in Budhumbula where a petition was handed to the palace caretakers led by Abed Muwanika, the Chairperson of Kamuli Taxi Drivers’ Association. 
Mr Muwanika informed Kyabazinga's subjects that Ms Namuganza’s actions were ‘subversive, divisive and meant to undermine Basoga’s unity’. 
He said: “As Basoga, we have come a long way. Basoga have always been used to pull down Basoga and now is the time to say No to such mercenaries who harbour selfish interests.” 
Kamuli District Youth Chairperson, Julius Mulamba, said: “Namuganza rose above her ego, got drunk with power and has abused it and made the youth feel betrayed and itching to rise up in defense.” 
Tough demands 
The custodian of Busoga spirits, Mandwa Kagulu, said the spirits of Busoga are angered by Namuganza’s utterances against the Kyabazinga and Speaker Kadaga; and the only option left is for her is to seek cleansing and ask for forgiveness. 
“This will involve her clan bringing a black goat since she is a girl, a white hen that hatched chicks for the first time, three pots of local brew called ‘tonto’ and food for reconciliation. At the reconciliation, her mouth will be washed with sour milk and smeared with ghee,” Mandwa Kagulu said. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com