Sewanyana appointed UN expert on democracy Dr Livingstone Sewanyana, the new Executive Director Foundation for Human Rights Initiative. FILE PHOTO In Summary In an interview with Daily Monitor Dr Sewanyana said his three-year-renewable mandate as an independent expert on promoting new democratic and equitable international order, involves examining UN member country practices in democracy and governance. He becomes the second person to hold this position which was established in 2016. Advertisement By Stephen Otage 
The United Nations Organization has appointed Dr Livingstone Sewanyana, the Executive Director Foundation for Human Rights Initiative, as its expert to document democracy and governance practices among its member states. 
In an interview with Daily Monitor Dr Sewanyana said his three-year-renewable mandate as an independent expert on promoting new democratic and equitable international order, involves examining UN member country practices in democracy and governance. He becomes the second person to hold this position which was established in 2016. 
“I will be required to present annual reports to the UN general assembly in New York and the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva in the areas of democracy and development among UN member states,” he said adding that his mandates entails ensuring that he highlights progress that member states have made to bridge the gap between the poor and the rich by ensuring that citizen voices are heard. 
In a related development, the World Bank on Tuesday, unveiled a three-member-delegation of Ugandan bloggers who have been selected to speak at this year’s World Bank and the International Monetary Fund Spring meetings in New York next month; where they are to share experiences of communicating development challenges in the country. 
According to Christina Malmberg Calvo, the World Bank country manager, this is the third time the World Bank is sponsoring Ugandan bloggers to speak at the high level meetings to share with the rest of the world the experiences they go through as they relay development information within their communities using modern communication channels especially social media. 
“Two and a half years ago, we launched a campaign called blog for development to have a conversation with young people about how to blog development opportunities and this year we are sponsoring three talented bloggers to tell their stories especially on how to prevent violence among women and,” she said adding that the three were selected because of their strengths in using social platforms like water collection points, drama platforms and IT pass development communication to their audiences. 
The three are; Douglas Dubois Sebamale an actor who uses drama to communicate issues of gender based violence on Televisions, Mary Helda Akongo who uses technology to define development challenges to rural women, and Namatta Tendo who took advantage of water collection points in refugee camps as an area where she provides women with information to access justice and redress during times of violence against them. 
sotage@ug.nationmedia.com