Tuesday March 27 2018 UNHCR official arrested over sodomising girls Mr Vicent Ssekatte, the spokesman of CID, said the suspect has already recorded a statement with their detectives at CID headquarters. In Summary "The file was recalled from Kitgum District for proper management. We are still detaining him at Jinja Road Police Division as we investigate him on unnatural offences,” Vicent Ssekatte, CID spokesman Advertisement By TOBBIAS JOLLY OWINY 
LAMWO. The Directorate of Criminal Investigations headquarters has taken over the investigation of sodomy allegations against a top United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. 
The suspect, who operates in Palabek Refugee Settlement Camp in Lamwo District, is said to have committed the offence in Kitgum District. Mr Vicent Ssekatte, the spokesman of CID, said the suspect has already recorded a statement with their detectives at CID headquarters. 
“The file was recalled from Kitgum District for proper management. Detectives at CID headquarters have recorded fresh statements. We are still detaining him at Jinja Road Police Division as we investigate him on unnatural offences. Detectives will determine on Tuesday (today) whether to give him a police bond or not,” Mr Ssekatte said yesterday. 
The Association of Women Lawyers or FIDA-Uganda has been handling the matter on behalf of the victim, and it accused police in Kitgum of attempting to suppress the case.“We examined our client and it is very true she was sodomised. She is in a very critical health condition. This is the worst form of sexual abuse with multiple effects,” said Ms Mercy Munduru, the FIDA programme officer. Sodomy is illegal in Uganda According to Section 145 (a) of the Penal Code Act, any person who has carnal knowledge of any person against the order of nature commits an offence and is liable to imprisonment for life. The CID headquarters took over the case after local leaders complained to CID director Grace Akullo. 
It is alleged that the suspect hired a former staff of UNHCR as his maid, but he later started forcefully having anal sex with her in February.Mr Patrick Jimmy Okema, the spokesman of Aswa region police, said the area police treated the matter reluctantly because the two had been ‘happily’ living together. Mr Okema said police only discovered that the suspect had promised the complainant Shs1m to start a business at a location in Kitgum Town that he rented for five months but returned from his leave to throw her out due to her adulterous acts. 
Unacceptable Ms Duniya Aslam Khan, UNHCR spokesperson, said any form of sexual abuse by any of UNHCR official is considered a gross misconduct and unacceptable. “If following a professional investigation the allegations are substantiated, the identified perpetuator is normally dismissed,” Ms Khan said. 
Palabek Refugee Settlement Camp has a population of more than 40,000 refugees, who are in the three sub-counties of Palabek Kal, Palabek Gem and Palabek Ogili. The refugees fled South Sudan following the renewed fighting in Imatong states when the SPLA launched a manhunt on several rebel groups. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com