Advertisement By James Abola 
Uganda is one huge deal territory. Some of the people who have a lot of money to flash, neither have a well-paying job nor a business to point to but they depend on deals. 
To prove the point of our deal mentality, the two most common facilities across the nation are sports betting shops and churches in make shift structures. 
Both the betting shops and churches getting filled with people seeking financial breaks, a lucky bet or a breakthrough depending on the location. 
One time a young man interrupted my financial literacy training with the assertion that he was waiting for one deal that would make him rich until death. He was very persuasive about the idea and soon had the full attention of the training participants. When I asked the young man and rest of the class to name just one person they knew who had got rich because of a deal in the last one year, they could not come up with a single name. 
Good deals are rare, most of the people improve their finances through incremental progress. With incremental progress you need to consistently save and invest the savings and then save the investment proceeds to continue the cycle. 
A man used incremental progress to buy tiles to roof his house. When the man told his colleagues that he wanted to use tiles for his roof, they fell with laughter because he was just as poor as they were. 
After knowing the number tiles needed for the roof, he set a goal of buying two tiles every day until he had the number needed. Sometimes the man would be out of town or lack money and not buy the tiles but when he got back he would buy even for the days missed so that he kept his two tiles per day average. After two years the house was complete and roofed. 
Embrace incremental financial progress, for it will make your life better. Set a goal, break it down to weekly and daily activities. Consistently implement your daily activities. 
James Abola is a business and finance consultant. 
james.abola@akamaiglobal.co.ug