There is money in a beauty spa Advertisement By Dorothy Nakaweesi 
One sure way you will get into women’s purses, is if you deal with their insecurities, especially if it makes them appear nicer and pampered. And trust me, there is no better way to do it than creating a beauty spa centre. 
This week we break down what you need to start such a business, from which a number of Ugandans are making a livelihood. In an ideal world, a spa can offer a variety of services, among them manicures, pedicures, aromatherapy, reflexology, facials and waxing. Others include acupuncture, facial massages and full body massages. Newton Buteraba, is a business adviser and who can better give details than such a man who is the current chief executive officer of House of Wealth. 
“This business is lucrative and little capital plus a combination of determination and hard work,” he says. However, he says, before you start this kind of business, it would be wise to first attain skills in order to understand how the business works. 
“This training is all over. You can even do self-teaching from online sources or you can join a training institution,” Buteraba says. 
However, he says, it is also possible to learn from someone who is already doing the business or join as a trainee. According to Buteraba, while training you need to look beyond the skills as you also have to understand the different kinds of creams, where they are bought and how, if necessary, they are mixed. 
Some cremes, he says, are already on the market while others have to imported, especially those that are specialised for certain functions. 
Therefore, for you to be competitive, you need to study the market, understand your competition, potential gaps and see how you can exploit them to curve out a niche for yourself. 
Ideally, for a business such as a beauty spa, the target market would be around recreation, hospitality centres and hospitals for physiotherapy relaxation and health care. 
Capital Start-ups are sometimes costly in terms of emotional support but a bit cheaper in terms of physical cash because they mostly depend on the goodwill of the owners for labour and investment. Therefore, it is possible to start a spa business with as little as Shs1m or Shs2m if you decide to go for an exquisite arrangement. 
Much of the money will go into training, buying equipment and paying for licensing regimes. According to Buteraba, developing a thorough plan will considerably increase your chances of obtaining funding, especially from seed capital ventures and development loans. 
“Start small, especially with members of your family and in the neighborhood. It is these people that will refer you other clients,” he says. 
Knowledge According to Annet Karumbi, a trained masseuse, who has more than eight years of experience, a spa is an ideal business if you are willing to get involved in its operation. 
This, she says, makes you get closer to the day-to-day operations as well as understanding trends something that she has learnt over the years from her Lestar Beauty Parlor. 
Some of the services Lestar Beauty Parlor offers include reflexology, body scrubs, facials, waxing and professional massage. “I work at Royal Suites in Bugolobi most of the time and when I am not there I offer mobile services, especially, for instance if I am invited in people’s homes,” she says. 
Karumbi started with about Shs1m but the business has grown to about Shs5m with a monthly income of more than Shs500,000. In a good month she works on about 30 customers at a rate that ranges between Shs50,000 and Shs150,000. 
ChallengesHowever, the business is not without challenges as the high rate of technological demands has had a negative impact. “People nolonger need to go to a masseur. They will just buy a chair or a bed that gives them the massage whenever they feel like,” Buteraba says. However, he adds, it is also costly to run a spa business as you have got to hire workers who might in most cases ride operational cost northwards. “You cannot do it all yourself. You must hire people with proven expertise to help you offer the best service,” he says. 
Business Tips From massage therapists to estheticians to makeup artists to stylists, you ill need to obtain state-approved licensing and training. 
Once you have settled on a name for your business, you will want to establish a limited liability company and register it with the registrar of companies. According to Buteraba, the location of your spa is also of utmost importance. “Your business must be visible; this will save you on advertising expenses. Look for locations in upscale neighborhoods with a good deal of foot traffic,” he says. Having enough room for each service provides easy access to deliveries and this will attract to you more clientele. 
Cleanliness is very key in this business since it involves handling people’s bodies. Experts say when hiring staff go for those who are skilled and professional and if they are not make it a point to train them. 
Business Tips From massage therapists to estheticians to makeup artists to stylists, you ill need to obtain state-approved licensing and training. 
Once you have settled on a name for your business, you will want to establish a limited liability company and register it with the registrar of companies. According to Buteraba, the location of your spa is also of utmost importance. 
“Your business must be visible; this will save you on advertising expenses. Look for locations in upscale neighborhoods with a good deal of foot traffic,” he says. Having enough room for each service provides easy access to deliveries and this will attract to you more clientele. 
Cleanliness is very key in this business since it involves handling people’s bodies. Experts say when hiring staff go for those who are skilled and professional and if they are not make it a point to train them. advertisement