Time is the best asset you have Advertisement 
Time is the greatest asset mankind has. What you choose to do with it will definitely define your tomorrow. We have 24 hours in a day. How do you earn from these hours, which habits have you changed to help you stay relevant and able to add value to your personal finance? 
Well what you focus on will definitely be your achievement. Just remember no one is responsible for your success but you are, God gave each of us two gifts; life and time. The things you choose to do with your time will definitely change your lifestyle.According to Wikipedia, time is the indefinite continued progress of existence and events that occur in apparently irreversible succession from the past through the present to the future. 
Clearly, you need to note that yesterday is gone and there is nothing you can do about it but today is the best capital you have to secure for the future. Use your today to make right decisions on how you choose to earn, therefore monetise your time. Stop wasting your today thinking you have another chance to make it right, remember each day is designed and sufficient enough for you to do your best.Let me give you an example: In Genesis 1: 1- 26. We see creation of the heavens and earth and what belongs in it. But guess what, God himself showed us you must have a plan which he well executed day-by-day until when he decided to rest. Everything God created knows it’s time, the birds know when to wake up and go to sleep. Why is it then hard for human beings to plan their time well? And yet we are created in the image of God and with superior potential.Warren Buffet is considered one of the world’s greatest and successful investor, interestingly the 87 year-old-man is a creature of habits and spends about 80 per cent of his time everyday reading something about finance. Indeed he spends most of his quality time on things that are more important to him in order to stay relevant.It’s never too late but change has to be manifested in your life and you as a person must feel it, The time you decide to make a budget will determine how well you will spend your money. Do you budget after receiving money or before? I believe the person who budgets before getting the money will be more in control of their money compared to the one who budgets after receiving money because our needs as human are unlimited hence you need to have the discipline to put into action, when it comes to managing money failing to plan is the same as planning to fail Therefore, know the time when to make your budget in order to spend wisely. 
A good future is determined by the good habits we choose to practice. Over time, we develop a culture that is worth a life time for example saving part of your income for retirement, or save for investment? 
If say you had started saving at the time of your first earning, how much would you have accumulated? Either way we are fighting for a bright future like I mentioned, today is the capital we have so let’s invest it wiselyPay attention to the interest rates and the time period given the loan product. Did you know the longer the period of time on any given loan makes you pay more interest to your lenders? 
Pay more attention to mortgage interest rates over time so that you don’t miss out on refinancing opportunities that could save you some money. advertisement