March 27, 2018 The British High Commissioner Peter West CMG with the women 
Members of the dfcu Women in Business programme have marked over a decade since its launch in Uganda during the 2007 Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting (CHOGM) held in Kampala. 
To mark this momentous day and ahead of the 2018 CHOGM that will be held in London in April, the British High Commissioner Peter West CMG hosted a reception at his residence to celebrate the achievements registered, using the opportunity to also recognise five exceptional women who are part of the dfcu Women in Business programme. 
“I welcome this opportunity to congratulate and recognise talented Ugandan Women in Business. The initiative for celebrating women in business was launched during the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting in Uganda in 2007 by dfcu Bank. 
Next month the UK will host CHOGM in London under the theme ‘Towards a Common Future,” High Commissioner West said, adding that trade and gender equality are among the priorities that the Commonwealth Heads of State will discuss. 
The Women in Business programme, which was started by dfcu Bank and enjoys a mentorship partnership from the Cherie Blair Foundation, founded by former British Prime Minister Tony Blair’s wife Cherie, now boasts of over 35,000 members. 
Of these 23,000 have been trained in running a business and financial management, with a key focus on increasing the women’s access to financial services and credit facilities. 
Although women make over 50% of Uganda’s population, a huge percentage of this number do not have adequate access to finance but the Women in Business programme is addressing this inequality. 
This lack of access is attributed to low financial literacy, such as, keeping adequate profit and loss accounts, writing business plans and articulating projections -all are key skills in accessing bank credit. 
Of the over 35,000-member pool, 4,000 are, thanks to the programme now credit-ready, and have received business loans from dfcu Bank to boost their businesses. 
Meanwhile, earlier in 2012, the Women in Business program constituted a five all-female Women in Business Advisory Council, which has a wide scope of expertise to support the bank in gender focused strategy formulation as well as build the capacity and develop the business skills for the women to enable them to continuously make informed business decisions as a primary goal. 
According to Rosemary Mutyabule, a member of the dfcu Bank Women in Business Advisory Council, dfcu understands the difficulty women face with limited working capital, lack of collateral to secure loans, limited market information, networks and so much more. 
“Financial literacy, which is a core element of the programme, plays a major role in ensuring that women who make up a higher percentage of the population have the requisite knowledge, skills and confidence to make informed choices as far as financial management is concerned and more importantly take advantage of the financial services available. 
“When women are more financially literate, they are more productive and are able to make a significant contribution to the economy,” she adds. 
A further milestone that was achieved since the Women in Business campaign was launched in 2007, was the opening of the Women in Business Advisory Center in 2015. 
This is a one-stop-shop for critical business services like financial and business-to-business advisory services. 
The dfcu Women in Business program has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the Uganda Law Society, Institute of Certified Public Accountants as well as Makerere University School of Business to further train their members on crucial business matters of law of contracts, accounting best practices and best business management practices.