We can stop wanton kidnaps and murders of our people Advertisement By Agnes Akello 
There is no doubt that we as citizens of Uganda are on tenterhooks due to the fear and trauma caused by the rampant kidnaps and gruesome murders of our people. 
The relevant authorities have tried to devise ways on how to curb these heinous crimes, but for sure, the criminality has not stopped. 
Uganda Communications Commission (UCC), for example, has instructed all telephone companies to stop the sale of and re-activation of SIM cards. This may be a good move, but how sure are we that this will stop the kidnaps given the glaring loopholes in the acquisition of the National IDs? 
My suggestion that we should equip our security forces with modern equipment to monitor telephone calls with the ability to listen in to some conversations. If I am not mistaken, the law is in place to allow this to happen. 
It is also imperative that our legislators should move fast and outlaw the use of tinted vehicle glasses. They should also restore sanity on the proper use of vehicle number plates. For example, if you are not a potential criminal, why would you tint your car glasses? Why would one remove the registered car number plate and replace it with false number plates. 
I once saw a vehicle number plate with just the letters ‘MUSEVENI’ and it was being driven around Kampala city. What an abuse of our nation. 
The disturbing part of this is that the security forces look the other way as such motorists create fear and dupe others with such number plates. Isn’t the police force empowered to deal with such individuals, who are apparently breaking the law in broad daylight?My other proposal towards curbing kidnaps and murders is to enforce discipline within the security forces. 
For instance, why should a security personnel be allowed to queer number plates? Besides, why should they be allowed to effect an arrest when they are not wearing uniform? The danger with allowing this to happen is that it gives room to potential criminals to operate with ease since the public will not who they are, especially when they to attack brandishing assault rifles! 
As a country, we will make life very difficult for criminals to kidnap and murder our people if the government takes into consideration the above suggestions. Any security personnel who may not wear a uniform should be accompanied by a uniformed police, especially when conducting operations. 
The idea here is to be certain that the operations were legally sanctioned. I hope the new Inspector General of Police reads this and action is taken. Agnes Akello,