Alternate power centres hamper enforcement of court orders Advertisement By Okumu Odumu 
It is a well settled maxim of law that court orders cannot be issued in vain, and closely linked to that, is that a successful party to a litigation process must enjoy the fruits of his or her labour. 
These are real bread and butter issues for the legal profession and as the Uganda Law Society goes to the polls to elect its officials, these are the issues that those aspiring to assume those lofty offices should be putting forward to engage with the relevant stakeholders instead of guild election like sloganeering we see contestants displaying. 
Gen Kale Kayihura acting through an outfit called the Land Protection Unit, in total disregard of the law, created at least 20 other steps or authorities without which a court order issued by a Ugandan Court could not be enforced, notwithstanding the name of the outfit it was a clearing house for all court orders based at Kibuli. 
The commandant of the Land Protection Unit had to authorise the order and thus start a long widening process of authorisation and any of this offices can, depending on the mood or of the officer, stop the execution process. 
From the commandant off to Kampala Metropolitan commander, who then refers the matter to the relevant regional police commander, who forwards to the relevant district police commander, who would also forward to the OC station in the area where the execution should take place. 
However, the busy bodies of the RDCs, the DISO, area LC1 chairman is supposed to sign and allow the process to proceed and not to mention that each of the aforesaid officials require in Ugandan speak, facilitation. This extra judicial process not only increases the cost of litigation, but it is also a total illegality and a slap in the face of the independence of the Judiciary. 
The most unintended consequences of this illegal process has been on the enforcement of the Mortgage Act 2009 and regulations made there under (2012), both of which have wide ranging protective provisions for both the lender (mortgagee) and the borrower (mortgagor), the police either in ignorance of the law have insisted that financial institutions in implementations of clear provisions of the law, must have a court order where the law envisages none, for a court order to arise, a litigation or suit must have commenced and concluded by a court of law and such relevant orders issued. 
However, the Mortgage Act provides remedies to a lender, which remedies do not envision a court process, meaning there would be no court order issued, but that a lender, who has exhausted all other protective remedies available to a borrower can resort to. Some of these include a right to vacant possession, a right to lease the mortgaged property and a right to sell the property. 
But the aforesaid acts of the Land Protection Unit, insist on a court order, therefore, the net result has been a near stalemate experienced by banks and legal practitioners in the proper implementation of the Mortgage Act and that is reflected in the growing portfolio of bad loans and a crisis in the financial sector. 
Uncollected mortgages have a direct bearing of yours and my pocket through high interest rates or unnecessary procedures by timid and hesitant lenders unsure if they will collect back the money thus a vicious cycle of low demand, job losses, business closures and low liquidity in the economy. 
The increasing contestations between lenders and borrowers have spread to the courts through multiple applications after applications for interim stay orders partly exacerbated by the falsehood of the police insisting on court orders where none are required in the first place. As a result, hundreds of mortgage matters are before the courts unresolved for years because the Judiciary suffers from a malaise called case backlog, which is basically euphemism for either laziness, late coming, absenteeism, sickness, shortage of judicial officers, poor diary management, file disappearances. Or outright incompetence of some judicial officers. 
Commercial transactions and conveyancing are the heart of our financial sector and these demand that endemic corruption or extra judicial disruptions either in our mortgage industry, lands registries and company registry, institutions pivotal to legal transactions in Uganda, are dealt with. The Uganda Bankers Association, the Uganda Law Society, the Uganda Court Bailiffs Association, The Uganda police, all practitioners and the Judiciary, should engage and agree on the minimum administrative mechanism necessary to enforce court orders. A court order is supreme, sacred, revered and the only recourse to a party dissatisfied with such orders, is an appeal to a superior court. 
Mr Odumu is a lawyer okumuodumu@gmail.com 