Wednesday March 28 2018 UMEA Games to attract more than 40 schools Timely support: UMEA tournament organisers and Tropical Bank staff pose with trophies and the cheque. Photo by JB Ssenkubuge In Summary Powerhouses Kibuli will present the highest number of teams, 10, but will face a tall order especially in football where they have always dominated. Last year’s winners Kasawo SS will be trying to prove a point. Advertisement By GEORGE KATONGOLE & MAKHTUM MUZIRANSA 
KAMPALA. Over 2000 players from at least 40 schools will compete in the 21st edition of the Uganda Muslim Education Association (Umea) Solidarity Games during the Easter weekend in the eastern town of Mbale.The Games, which include six disciplines, are dedicated to linking Islamic-founded schools through sports and will begin on Friday and climax Monday at Nkoma SS. 
The schools will compete in football (girls and boys), netball (girls), volleyball (boys and girls), table tennis (girls and boys) and badminton (boys and girls). Hajji Twahil Kiteezala, the chairperson of the UMEA Games, believes that even though the Games have grown in attendance and national appeal as they are spread all ovber the country, they can be more inclusive.“We need all schools to be given the opportunity to participate but not many are able to meet their costs,” Kiteezala, said at a press briefing held at Tropical Bank – Lugogo. 
“Our tournament is the biggest in Uganda after Copa Coca-Cola but we have not been able to subsidize for our schools to attract a bigger number,” Kitezaala noted as he urged the bank that has committed Shs6.8m in terms of trophies and 450 medals, to keep supporting the Games.“Sport has been significant to our country and its contribution to the economy of the country cannot be underrated anymore. After last year’s Games in Mbarara, we commited to growing with Umea and we are here to continue with this relationship,” Morris Mugwiri, the bank’s Head of Relationship Management, said. 
Powerhouses Kibuli will present the highest number of teams, 10, but will face a tall order especially in football where they have always dominated. Last year’s winners Kasawo SS will be trying to prove a point. Meanwhile Minister of Energy & Minerals Irene Muloni is expected to be the chief guest at the opening ceremony due Friday at Mbale Municipal Stadium. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com