Stop the kidnaps and ransoms now Advertisement 
Government should stop the current wave of crime, especially kidnaps and demand for ransom and killings that have gripped the country since January. What the country expects in sorting out the mess is action, not trading of blame by our State agencies. 
In two recent cases of kidnap, the criminals have abducted, demanded ransom, which is paid, but still have gone ahead to kill their victims. 
In both cases, the State security agencies cannot escape accusations of having abdicated their cardinal duties of protecting the lives of citizens. Worryingly, as things stand now, the public is unsure of who of their numbers will fall the next victim. 
This precarious situation demands that government should pronounce itself and guide citizens on measures to stop this frightening situation. Regrettably, in the two cases, the State security agencies sidestepped their duties to take dictums from traumatised families and heartless kidnappers. 
There is no way the security of citizens can be relegated to a family and their tormentors to direct. The two cases also exposed gaps in the coordination of the country’s security agencies and their operations. 
It showed the sister security agencies did not have the capacity and competence to run ahead of and deal with shrewd criminals.Yet invariably, the police should remain the key agency of State with the training in both hard and soft skills to negotiate with and handle hostage takers, not the victims’ families. 
Both instances were cases that demanded State institutions of security to firmly step in and deal with the situations. The criminal gangs must never be allowed to dictate how the police and sister security agencies should execute their work in detecting and stopping crime, enforcing law and order and protecting citizens. 
But these two embarrassing situations have left the public unsure of who will fall the next victim. These uncertainties have forced Ugandans to inadvertently fund both crime and criminals. 
More worrying is that the ransoms have not helped. The wananchi are now unsure of how to deal with these distressful situations, leaving criminals to freely kidnap, get the money, and get away with the crimes.This now demands that government pronounces itself on this issue and guide the public on what to do when faced with such delicate situations. 
This call is made more urgent because the insecurity risks rolling back NRM government’s cardinal promise to Ugandans; namely to guarantee peace, security and safety of persons and property. But 32 years since that promise, the warranty seems expired, and must be renewed now. Related Stories