Wednesday March 28 2018 UPDF soldiers named in torture of ex-town clerk The former town clerk was tortured by the soldiers for allegedly trespassing on the land owned by the commander of UPDF Reserve Forces, Maj Gen Charles Otema Awany (pictured). COURTESY PHOTO In Summary Mr Akwonga’s beating comes barely five months after residents of Got Okwara Village in October last year pinned Gen Awany before the commission of inquiries into land matters headed by Justice Catherine Bamugemereire over using UPDF soldiers to forcibly evict 60 locals from the land. Advertisement By JULIUS OCUNGI & DENIS OMONY 
Soldiers guarding a farm belonging to a top general in the army are on the spot over allegations that they tortured a former town clerk of Paidha Town Council in Zombo District. Mr Karim Akwonga, 66, is admitted to Anaka hospital and is nursing severe injuries resulting from torture reportedly inflicted on him last week by Uganda Peoples Defence Forces (UPDF) soldiers in Obira parish, Got Apwoyo Sub-county in Nwoya District. The former town clerk was tortured by the soldiers for allegedly trespassing on the land owned by the commander of UPDF Reserve Forces, Maj Gen Charles Otema Awany. 
Speaking to Daily Monitor from his hospital bed on Monday, Mr Akwonga said on the fateful night, soldiers whose faces he couldn’t recognise, went to his residence on the disputed land and ordered him out of the house but he did not comply. He said the soldiers then set fire on his hut, forcing him to run out of the house. “As I stormed out of the hut, two soldiers grabbed me and started beating me severely. They later dragged me to an unknown destination where they continued beating me until I lost consciousness,” Mr Akwonga said. He said the land in question has been his since 1978, adding that his family members have been settled on it, but he did not show any documents to back his claim. 
“What happened to me is the handiwork of a big shot who wants to grab my land, this matter is already at the High Court in Gulu,” he said. Our efforts to get a comment from Gen Awany were futile as his known phone number was inaccessible by press time, but the 4th Division spokesperson, Maj Telesphor Turyamumanya, in a telephone interview on Monday, said: “Since the matter involves a General, I cannot comment on it. Please contact him.” 
The Aswa River region Police Spokesperson, Mr Jimmy Patrick Okema, confirmed to Daily Monitor in an interview on Monday that the case has been reported at Nwoya Police Station.He regretted the incident and described it as inhuman. “The laws of this country will surely catch up with the suspects because they are not above the law,” Mr Okema said. But the Nwoya District Council chairperson, Mr Patrick Okello Oryema, accused Akwonga of mobilising people to trespass on Gen Awany’s land. He claimed that Mr Akwonga was the mastermind of a recent mobilisation of locals from the Jonam County in Pakwach District to come and settle on the disputed land. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com