Newly appointed High Court judges posted to duty stations Principal Judge Yorokamu Bamwine. FILE PHOTO In Summary Justice Bamwine who is the administrative head of the High Court and subordinate courts, in his posting circular dated March 27, noted that the deployment of the 10 new judges is meant for more efficient delivery of judicial services. The composition at the Commercial Court remains the same with Justice David Wangutusi and Justice Billy Kainamura as the head and deputy respectively. About a month ago, President Museveni appointed 14 judges with 10 being appointed to the High Court Bench in response to the persistent cries for lack of enough judges to tackle the case backlog and four to the Court of Appeal/Constitutional Court. Advertisement By ANTHONY WESAKA & NELSON WESONG 
Principal Judge Yorokamu Bamwine has posted the 10 newly appointed judges of the High Court to their duty stations to commence work with immediate effect. 
Justice Bamwine who is the administrative head of the High Court and subordinate courts, in his posting circular dated March 27, noted that the deployment of the 10 new judges is meant for more efficient delivery of judicial services.According to the Principal Judge’s posting circular, Justice Paul Gadenya Wolimbwa is posted to the Executions & Bailiffs Division. He will at the same time, be attached to the Judiciary’s projects. 
Justice Alex Ajiji is posted to Lira High Court, Justice Cornelia Kakooza Sabiiti is posted to the Land Division, Justice Tadeo Asiimwe goes to Mbale High Court, and Justice Olive Kazaarwe Mukwaya is posted to the Commercial Division.Other postings are; Justice Jane Frances Abodo for Criminal Division, Justice Musa Sekaana is posted to the Civil Division, Justice Emmanuel Baguma is posted to Gulu High Court, Justice Joyce Kavuma is posted to Mbarara High Court while Justice Richard Wejuli Wabwire is posted to Fort Portal High Court. 
Justice Bamwine noted that because of the deployment of the 10 new judges, there was need for him to also cause changes at the top leadership of the various divisions of the High Court.“Following the recent appointments of new judges to the High Court, it has become necessary to effect some changes in the management of the divisions and circuits.” 
The changes at the various high court divisions and circuits include; Justice Lawrence Gidudu remains the head of the Anti-Corruption Division being deputized by Justice Margaret Tibulya.Justice Moses Mukiibi remains the head of the International Crimes Division with Justice Margaret-Oguli Oumo who was previously at Civil Division deputizing him. 
Justice John Eudes Keitirima formerly at Masaka High Court moves to the Land Division of the High Court in Kampala and will be deputized by Justice Damali N. Lwanga.The Civil Division will now be headed by Justice Andrew K. Bashaija formerly at the Land Division who will be deputised by Justice Henrietta Wolayo. 
The composition at the Commercial Court remains the same with Justice David Wangutusi and Justice Billy Kainamura as the head and deputy respectively.The Criminal Division has also not changed with Justices Wilson Kwesiga and Flavia Senoga Anglin remaining as the head and deputy head respectively. 
Justice Duncan Gaswaga is now the head of Executions Division and will be deputized by Justice Patricia Basaza Wasswa. The family Division will be headed by Justice Godfrey Namundi and will be deputized by Justice David Matovu.Justice Winfred Nabisinde has been transferred to Masaka High Court from Lira High Court. 
“Please note that although the postings take immediate effect, they are subject to the usual completion of partly heard cases in advanced stage at the current station and timely delivery of pending judgments and rulings,” Justice Bamwine directed in his circular 
About a month ago, President Museveni appointed 14 judges with 10 being appointed to the High Court Bench in response to the persistent cries for lack of enough judges to tackle the case backlog and four to the Court of Appeal/Constitutional Court. 
In a related development, Justice Minister, Kahinda Otafiire is today expected to table a motion in Parliament to have the structure of High Court judges increased from the current 52 to 82 in a bid to tackle the huge case backlog.According to the 2015 Judiciary file census, the case backlog was standing at 37,827, which was an alarming figure advertisement