Lawyer wants Justice Elizabeth Musoke out of age limit petition ‘‘you sired children with Hon. Onek, Rukutana’’ – key govt officials in the case   
One of the petitioners in age limit case, has written to Justice Elizabeth Musoke over what he calls conflict of interest in the case. Justice Elizabeth Musoke is one the panel of five judges selected to hear the consolidated constitutional petitions challenging the process and subsequent amendment of the Constitution. 
The judges include Deputy Chief Justice Alfonse Owiny-Dollo, Remmy Kasule, Elizabeth Musoke, Cheborion Barishaki and Kenneth Kakuru. Dated 28th March 2018, titled: Notice of your recusal due to Hon. Deputy attorney General and Hon. Minister Hillary Onek’s siring of children with you. The lawyer says, the Judge will be receiving submissions from the father of her child and at the same time, ‘‘she will be hearing a case in which another father of her two children Hon. Hillary Onek is interested in and having voted in support.’’ - Advertisement - 
The lawyer says he has reliable information that the judge sired children with Hon. Mwesigwa Rukutana, the current Deputy Attorney General and Hon. Hillary Onek who is the current minister of General Duties. He says, the two government offcials are highly interested in the case, having voted yes in support of age limit bill December last year. ‘ ‘ I am the petitioner in the Constitutional petition No. 49 of 2017-which has been consolidated with four others and coming up for hearing on 9th April 2018 at Mbale- Male H. Mabirizzi K. Kiwanuka V. The Attorney General of Uganda’’ Mabirizzi wrote. 
He adds: My Lord, I have cogent information that, you sired a child with Hon. Mwesigwa Rutatana, the current deputy Attorney General and who is heading the respondent’s legal team. You sired two children with Hon. Hillary Onek, who is the current Minister of General duties, who voted Yes, in favour of Constitutional Amendment Bill No.2 of 2017, which Cabinet agreed to support 
‘ ‘The purpose of this letter therefore to put you on notice that I seriously object to you sitting in the case because you be sitting in your own case’’ Mabirizi noted in his letter to Justice Elizabeth Musoke. There are five petitions challenging the events and the process leading to and the actual enactment of the constitution (Amendment) Act, 2017 as being inconsistent with the Constitution. The petitioners want the act annulled with some arguing that it’s only going to benefit Mr Museveni who will be above the age of 75 in the next general election and not fit to offer his candidature. 
Some of these petitioners include; Uganda Law Society (ULS), six opposition MPs led by leader of opposition in Parliament Kiiza, city lawyer, Mr Male Mabirizi, former presidential candidate, Mr Abed Bwanika and a concerned citizen from Western Uganda, Mr Prosper Busingye. 
The Judiciary in a surprise move on Tuesday, announced that the five age limit constitutional petitions that have been consolidated into one, will be heard from the far eastern town of Mbale starting April 4 in a marathon style. The announcement by Deputy Chief Justice Alfonse Owiny-Dollo, who doubles as the head of the Constitutional Court/Court of Appeal where the age limit petitions were filed. - Advertisement -