Kampala best city in east Africa, ranked 172 out 231 cities- 2018 Global cities ranking   
The New York-based consultancy Mercer, in its 2018 quality of living survey, has ranked Uganda’s capital Kampala, best city to live in in east Africa Kampala was ranked at position 172 while Kenya’s capital Nairobi at position 186 out of 231 cities. Rwanda’s Kigali came in third behind Kampala and Nairobi at position 190, having improved two positions, while Tanzania’s Dar es Salaam stagnated at position 199. 
The authoritative survey is one of the world’s most comprehensive and is conducted annually to enable multinational companies and other organisations to compensate employees fairly when placing them on international assignments. To rank the cities, the survey examined the levels of traffic congestion, quality of public transport, electricity supply and banking services. Other indicators include crime levels, education, political stability, housing, food availability and entertainment. - Advertisement - 
The ranking offers a sneak preview of a country’s level of development and the city’s ability to attract and retain investors, expatriates and tourists. The survey also guides multinationals in their assessment of the pay for their staff in different countries in which they have operations. “Factors such as climate, disease and sanitation standards, ease of communications, and physical remoteness can often affect the success of a foreign assignment,” the authors of report noted. 
“Moreover, the local political and social environment, political violence, and crime may give rise to potentially uncomfortable, inconvenient, or even dangerous situations. To encourage mobility, reliable information is needed to help calculate fair, consistent expatriate compensation for hardship locations.” 
Port Louis (83) is the highest ranking African city for quality of living followed by the Durban (89), Cape Town (94) and Johannesburg (95). N’Djamena (226), Khartoum (227) and Bangui (230) stay the lowest ranked in the region. Persistent political instability, poverty, extreme climates and lack of appropriate infrastructure investments means these cities have the lowest quality of living worldwide. 
Victoria (58) ranks highest on the continent for City Sanitation, followed by Durban (73) and Port Louis (80), whereas Brazzaville (225) and Antananarivo (226) fill the bottom places. Globally, Vienna tops the ranking for the 9th year running and is followed by Zurich (2), Auckland and Munich in joint 3rd place. In 5th place Vancouver completes the top five and is the highest ranking city in North America. Singapore (25) and Montevideo (77) are the highest ranking cities in Asia and Latin America respectively.