  Journalist Bakka remanded for third time Veteran journalist, Rev Isaac Onzima Bakka, who was arrested five months ago by security agencies. FILE PHOTO In Summary Court records indicate that Rev Bakka was kidnapped on October 9, 2017 after someone called him for help in finding the space to set up a supermarket. His relatives tried to trace him in vain prompting them to report a case of disappearance at Seeta police on SD Ref. 29/09/10/2017. Rev Bakka was a freelance journalist working with BTN television and Nile FM. Advertisement By BETTY NDAGIRE 
KAMPALA - Nakawa Chief Magistrate’s Court has further remanded to Luzira prison veteran journalist, Rev Isaac Onzima Bakka, who was arrested five months ago. 
Appearing in a session presided over by Chief Magistrate, Jamson Karemani for mention of his case, Bakka was told by prosecutor, Ms Ann Ntimba that inquiries into his case are not complete. 
Rev Bakka is facing charges of treason alongside three others. The others are; Godfrey Asea, George Ngungu and Innocent Mawe. 
The quartet are also accused of failing to report to the security minister or any security organ that an offense of treason is about to be committed. 
Prosecution contends that Rev Bakka and his co-accused between January 2017 and January 2018, in various districts in the country and others in Kenya and South Sudan plotted to overthrow the government. 
The state further claims that the suspects made utterances, acquired firearms, recruited individuals into armed forces and rented apartments in attempt to accomplish their mission. 
The key suspect (Bakka) went missing about five months ago and his whereabouts remained unknown for some time until it emerged that he had been detained by security organs. 
The court adjourned the matter to May 11, 2018 for further mention.In February 2018, sources in Luzira prison confirmed to Daily Monitor that Rev Bakka was charged with cases related to treason at Nakawa Chief Magistrate’s Court and remanded to prison. 
Court records indicate that Rev Bakka was kidnapped on October 9, 2017 after someone called him for help in finding the space to set up a supermarket. 
His relatives tried to trace him in vain prompting them to report a case of disappearance at Seeta police on SD Ref. 29/09/10/2017. Rev Bakka was a freelance journalist working with BTN television and Nile FM. 
UTILITY On February 15, Members of Parliament raised their concerns over the state of Press Freedom in Uganda on the floor of Parliament following the kidnap of New Vision Senior Reporter, Charles Etukuri. Charles Etukuri was kidnapped by five men wearing military uniforms and travelling in a white Toyota double cabin. 
bndagire@ug.nationmedia.com