Police arrest suspects over sale of Obey’s property Mr Christopher Obey, the former principal accountant in the Ministry of Public Service. FILE PHOTO In Summary 
On April 20, 2017, Anti-Corruption Court judge Lawrence Gidudu ruled that: “It’s, therefore, justifiable that any property in his (Obey’s) names or that in the names of companies where he is a director or shareholder should be restrained to make good the compensation orders.” Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA 
Kampala. Police have arrested two key suspects who allegedly sold off Christopher Obey’s land in Mubende District. William Kalasi and Francis Katende were arrested on Saturday and Sunday respectively in Mubende. They are currently being held at the Directorate of Criminal Investigations (CID) at Kibuli.The duo allegedly connived with Mubende District Lands officials to sell off close to 6,400 acres of Obey’s land whose title is being held as an exhibit in an ongoing case against him.The government on September 9, 2016 and again on November 28, 2017 placed a caveat forbidding any transactions on the land located in Buwekula, Mubende District. 
Confirmed Mr Martin Okoyo, the Mubende District Police Commander (DPC), confirmed the development. Mr Arthur Kazoora, the director of MK-Mutaara, a company which manages Obey’s property, said he will continue hunting for other suspects as CID probes the two who are already arrested.“I was at CID yesterday to check on the status of the case but I was told that investigations are still ongoing. I pray that justice prevails,” he said. 
Efforts to speak to CID’s spokesman Vicent Ssekate to ascertain the status of investigations hit a snag as he could not answer our calls. According to documents, the land was allegedly sold to four people in September 2016, among which is Tropical Eco Forest Company Ltd directors. 
Abuse of office Mr Kazoora said Mubende District land officials “must be brought to book for using a public office to forge land titles over someone’s land”.“ They are the same people who authorised a government tractor for the District to destroy the farms that were on that land hence causing losses,” he said.Mr Obey is a former Public Service Ministry principal accountant and is being prosecuted jointly with permanent secretary Jimmy Lwamafa and the ministry’s former research director Stephen Kunsa on allegations of embezzling pension money. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com