Museveni: Crime Preventers is my project; they are now a reserve force reporting to Gen. Muhoozi   
Those of you who had written off and undermining Crime Preventers need to think twice. President Museveni on Wednesday revealed that the group will now be reporting directing to chief of Defence Forces. Adding that Crime Preventers are now a reserve force. 
Mr. Museveni said that the group can be actively involved in detection and prevention of crime but could also be useful in case of any invasion on the country to act as the reserve force. The president made the revelation while addressing over 2,000 crime preventers at MTN Arena Lugogo. Museveni said the new crime preventer team should meet with the CDF, Gen. David Muhoozi. Museveni told crime preventers that he has already talked to the CDF that the crime preventer’s scheme deserves to be under the army. - Advertisement - 
“Why I left you with the police is because you were dealing with the crime but in the end, you belong to the army… I now regard you as a reserve army for UPDF. My idea is to have a small army which is equipped but with a big reserve,” Museveni said. 
Apart from preventing crime, Museveni told crime preventers to be exemplary actors in poverty eradication in their homes and communities. Museveni urged them to engage in income generating activities like commercial agriculture so as to avoid being redundant. 
“Don’t be the one in a bar with swollen cheeks like a ripe banana, let your light shine,” he said. Museveni pledged to put Ugx. 1.3 billion in crime preventers SACCO. The group’s National Coordinator Blaise Kamugisha told Museveni that as they did in the 2016 general elections, they will always be ready to protect him and canvass for him votes. 
“We played an important role in the last election. We did not only protect the vote, but we also voted,”Kamugisha told Museveni. Under their umbrella – The National Crime Preventers Forum (NCPF), the group was founded in 2013 to promote community policing in Uganda in partnership with Uganda Police Force