Namuganza weeps before parliamentary Committee   
State Minister for Lands, Persis Namuganza on Tuesday wept before the Parliamentary Committee of Rules, Disciplines and Privileges, expressing fear that her life is in danger. 
The Minister whose security was recently boosted, appeared before the committee to explain herself over her rivalry Speaker of Parliament Rebecca Kadaga over Busoga Kingdom affairs. She it all started when Ms Kadaga started interfering in the royal issues of the Nkono chiefdom, one of the core pillars of the Busoga kingdom. The Bukono County MP, said she has been receiving threatening messages from unknown people ever since she started her quarrel with the speaker, whom she described as “a self-appointed chairperson of the Busoga Caucus, with a strong ego and unbridled supremacy” was using the caucus to propel her selfish interests. - Advertisement - 
Namuganza who speaks with authority explained that the Speaker has penetrated the family of the late Mutyaba and divided us to the extent that I cannot drink water from her father’s home,” Ms Namuganza said. The minister accuses the Speaker of installing an illegitimate Nkono Chief, after the demise of her father, Christopher Mutyaba. Namuganza says the speaker installed an unknown Nkono in total disregard of several interventions and family misunderstandings on the succession. 
Although the late Mutyaba’s desired heir was the younger brother of Namuganza and the last born to the deceased, attempts for his installation were delayed by President Museveni who asked them to postpone the exercise in 2015 because of the political situation at the time. She said that on February 28, 2018, president Museveni gave her a message to deliver to the Nkono royals, only to be surprised by the Speaker’s unannounced installation of a different person, loyal to the incumbent Kyabazinga, William Gabula Nadiope IV, barely a day later. 
While gracing the ceremony, Ms Kadaga, according to Ms Nagunza announced that no one would dethrone the new chief for as long as she lived. She asked the committee to summon the Speaker to not only explain her role in the royal affairs of the kingdom and Bukono County, but also advise her on the parliamentary decorum relating to her position. 
Ms Namuganza wants the Speaker to apologise to her and the people of Bukono for allegedly opening fresh wounds regarding the controversial installation of the incumbent Kyabazinga. - Advertisement -