Home / SPORTS / Jesus winner edges Brazil past old adversaries Germany Jesus winner edges Brazil past old adversaries Germany   SPORTS Leave a comment 109 Views 
Berlin, Germany | AFP | Gabriel Jesus struck the winner as Brazil put memories of their 2014 World Cup mauling by Germany behind them with a 1-0 friendly win in Berlin on Tuesday. 
Jesus’ first-half goal at Berlin’s Olympic Stadium, packed with a 72,717-strong crowd, saw Brazil end Germany’s unbeaten run of 22 games dating back to their Euro 2016 semi-final defeat by hosts France. 
More worryingly for Germany head coach Joachim Loew ahead of their World Cup defence in Russia, his captain Jerome Boateng twisted his right ankle and was forced off in the second half. FULL TIME: 
Germany 0x1 Brazil. Gabriel Jesus with the winner in Berlin. 
The Seleção looked balanced, very strong defensively and was able to snatch the winner. pic.twitter.com/WlcA7S5uyi 
— Seleção Brasileira (@BrazilStat) March 27, 2018 
The friendly victory gained a measure of revenge for Brazil, whose coach Tite admitted are still haunted by the 7-1 thrashing Germany handed the hosts in the semi-finals of the last World Cup. 
“It was a matter of pride, after all that has been written and said,” said Brazil defender Thiago Silva. 
“This jersey deserves a little more respect. That’s why I’m overjoyed about winning against a big opponent.” 
Defending world champions Germany are now winless in their last four games after draws against England, France and Spain. 
“It was to be expected that Brazil, with their injured soul, played their best team and were highly motivated,” said Loew. 
“It wasn’t our day. We made too many mistakes, which allowed Brazil to grow in strength and confidence. 
“We had a few young players, who will learn from this, but in addition, the body language was not right from some players.” GABRIEL JESUS: 
“Result comes as a consequence of playing well and working hard. We knew Germany would keep more of the ball, so we were prepared to soak up the pressure. But we entered with a mentality that we wanted the win.” pic.twitter.com/fhxVKROqgg 
— Seleção Brasileira (@BrazilStat) March 27, 2018 
Loew made seven changes from the team which started the 1-1 draw with Spain last Friday and included just two World Cup-winners. 
With Thomas Mueller and Mesut Ozil rested, Boateng and Toni Kroos were the only members of the Germany team which routed Brazil nearly four years ago. 
Kroos felt some fringe players had blown their chance at a place in Germany’s World Cup squad. 
“There were a few players who had the chance to show what they could do, but didn’t take it — that’s annoying,” said the Real Madrid midfielder. Share on: