(Sun Newspaper) Unfortunately, the 25-year-old died after ingesting the concoction. Panicking, Ojoko dug a shallow grave and buried her. After committing the atrocious crime, Ojoko reportedly sneaked back to Port Harcourt, Rivers State, to his wife and children, not knowing that the hands of the law would soon catch up with him. According to reports, Ojoko had gotten the lady pregnant and not wanting to take responsibilities, he procured the herbal concoction, took her to an uncompleted building where he gave her the drink which caused a fatal adverse reaction, resulting in her death. He then went back home, got a shovel and dug a shallow grave behind the building and buried the corpse before escaping back to his base. However, he was undone by a young girl who saw what he had done and promptly reported to the owner of the building who reported the matter to the police. 
A man beating a woman to pulp (Illustration) (Desjontech Blogspot) Ojoko's elder brother, Pastor Sopuruchi was later arrested and led the detectives to Ojoko's base in Port Harcourt, where he was arrested. The State Police Commissioner, Taiwo Lakanu , while parading the suspect, said Ojoko met the lady in a bus in December last year and after they struck up a relationship, Ojoko would travel regularly to Owerri, where he would lodge with the lady in a hotel and have fun till she became pregnant and informed him of it. ALSO READ: Boyfriend arrested for killing pregnant girlfriend Ojoko himself also confessed to his crime: “On July 20, 2015, I took my girlfriend to an uncom­pleted building around 6:30pm. My girlfriend took the herbal medicine, but later she started writhing in pain. Then she died. I ran to my house and took a shovel; I carried her body to the side of the building. I dug the ground and buried her in a shallow grave.” However, the police said that on exhuming the corpse of the lady, an autopsy was conducted and it was discovered that she was actually murdered in cold blood as a piece of cloth was used to strangle her. Subscribe to the Pulselive Newsletter! Subscribe Subscribe to the Pulselive Newsletter! Back to Article Do you ever witness news or have a story that should be featured on Pulse Live Kenya? Submit your stories, pictures and videos to us now via WhatsApp: +254708994405, Social Media @pulselivekenya : #PulseLiveEyewitness & DM or Email: . Author 