Thursday March 29 2018 Save yourself from buying ghost land Doing background check before paying for land will help you know if the transaction is genuine. Photo by Stephen Otage. In Summary Thieves are getting smarter by the day, and the land business has not been spared. Many people are losing hard-earned money to land crooks. We share precautions one needs to take when buying land. Advertisement By Eric Kyama 
Buying and selling land comes with a lot of controversies if not handled in the right way. People involved in some cases end up as sworn enemies. This is because a lot of money is involved. However, Catherine Namara Masiko, a lawyer with Namara Twende & company advocates, believes getting conned is something that can be avoided if precautionary measures are taken by a person planning to buy land. 
Before purchase One of the things a person needs to do in the process of buying land is to ensure that the land they are about to buy has a title. “Land having a land title is one thing that is really essential,” says Namara. Namara also adds that: “It is important for a person to cross check whether the title presented to them by the person selling land is genuine.” She also says there are things a person can use to identify the kind of land they are to buy. “If the land a person is to buy is mailo land, then they are supposed to look out for a block and plot number no title, the same applies to leasehold land,” she says. 
The conmen It is also important for one to know the kind of people they are buying land from. “Some people who sell land are actually conmen who may pretend to be the owners of the land. This therefore means that it is important for one to know the kind of person or people they are dealing with and not just any other person who comes their way,” Namara says. She also adds that some conmen have even gone an extra mile of even infiltrating the land registration office. She however, adds that such cases are rare. 
Daniel Kizito, a land broker in Kampala, also says one also has to be mindful of the brokers they are dealing with. “Some brokers are actually not genuine. It advisable for one to do a background check on the brokers they are using to buy land,” he says. After this, he adds, one also has to get to know the actual land owners. “One has to do thorough investigations to make sure that the land they are buying from a person is not co-owned by any other person. This is common in cases where a person is selling off their family land without the consent of their family members,” says Kizito. 
Cross check with the land registration office to see if the land title really exists. This is one of the things that have to be done even before paying off the person selling the land.“Many people make the mistake of paying the person selling land and then run to the land registration office to cross check. This is dangerous because if the person you are dealing with is a conman then they will have gotten away with it,” says Kizito. Going to the land registration offices, Kizito adds, helps one know how a particular piece of land they want to buy has been changing ownership. 
Ask the LCs Besides that, Kizito also advises that one consults the people and local council members of the area where the land is to be bought. This, he says, helps one avoid any buying land that belongs to other people or it can actually help them know whether the person selling land is known in the area as a resident. 
Incase of fraud Namara advises that after such an incident has happened, it is best if authorities are involved. “It is advisable that one reports the matter to the police to make a follow up,” she says. “You can even go ahead and sue the land seller in the courts of law,” she adds. Namara also points out that this issue can also be settled out of the courts of law if both parties are okay with it. “Not that everything that goes on has to end up in court. Some issues can actually be settled out of the courts of law,” she says. 
However, even before the buying of land, Kizito advises that one can do a well-written agreement with the person selling of the land. “The agreement can include conditions in place when buying the land. One can reach an agreement with the other party to pay half of the money and the other half comes in after verification has been done,” says Kizito. 
editorial@ug.nationemdia.com