Change the face of your compound with solar lights Solar lights will enhance the look of your compound walk ways. Stock photo In Summary Solar lights can help you get the kind of look you want in your compound and save on power costs at the same time. Generally speaking, the rechargeable battery can be replaced every two years in order to maintain the maximum capacity. If you have a long winter or extreme weather conditions in your area, it would be better to change the battery every year. Advertisement By Sarah Aanyu 
We all deserve to have dream compounds that bring out the trendy and classy glamour that we intend to present to those who visit our homes. Solar lights do not only give you the lighting but glamour too.With solar, there is no excuse of having a compound that is not lighting and short of security just because of the fear to accumulate electricity bills. 
The solar lights come with decorative aspects that enable you enhance the look of your compound.Their low height enables them to give enough light to the compound and create a cozy kind of atmosphere in the gardens since they are usually deemed depending on the colour purchased.With them in the garden, you do not need to take your parties to commercial venues because the same garden can be good for a dinner or any other kind of event. 
With the lighting, the texture of each feature available in the garden is accentuated, which makes it an adventurous and hospitable place to spend the evening. Sometimes a person can achieve a beautiful scenery on his or her own or better still hire an expert to help out in designing. 
Choice of colour “The compound is very large and each corner has something special that the owner attaches to it and can base on to put the solar light,” says Raymond Kisoboka, a landscaper at and proprietor of Rota technical services limited, a company that sells solar lights. 
He says you should not ignore the type of plants around. Those that are shrubs and need more light should use brighter lights, which will give you enough light.For the garden areas where you go to relax, he advises individuals to use deem lights and those that and bring out the colour of the leaves give you a relaxing mood. 
On the other hand, Boniface Wanja, a landscaper at Bonre consultancy Parlor, Bweyogerere says things concerning light are tricky reason you need to consult experts.He says colours like red and green should not be used in the garden because they create do not blend in so well and are not good for the eyes. 
The costs Kisoboka says solar light prices depend on what kind you need and the size but they range from Shs50,000 to over Shs1,000,000.“These may be a little costly but are durable because they are just installed once and you get the natural recharger which is sunshine,” says Kisoboka. Wanja says apart from looking at the store prices, look at the maintenance costs, which you will not incur and also it does not need any technician to install it since you simply have it placed in the ground. 
Types of solar lights Kisoboka says solar path lights are those ones used to light walkways but due to their deem nature, you will need to use more as compared to the electric ones.Kisoboka says solar powered spotlights are very bright and are common along main roads. This can also be placed at the entrance of the gardens so that the person going in can see where they are passing. 
“Decorative and ambient solar lights are very common in many corporate city gardens. Their nature beautiful nature enables them to do both decoration and lighting,” says Kisoboka.He says they usually come in many different colours, shape and material, which distinguishes them from others. 
Where to place the lights “When placing lights in the garden, avoid placing all of them in a straight line at least try to put some in the corners, the centre and a garden that has this arrangement always looks beautiful and safe for the people who use it because all corners have light,” says Wanja.“He also says the leaves around determine where to place what kind of light so you should be keen not to blunder,” says Kisoboka. 
Wanja says people installing solar lights should avoid putting it where there is too much shade but place it where it can receive direct sunshine.“But if you do not mind the quality of light that you will get, you can leave it in the shade and it will still charge. Even the rains cannot stop it from charging,” says Wanja. 
Maintaining solar lights A sense of separation. A different Cleaning solar panelsIt is important that dirt and debris is kept off of the solar panel to the greatest extent possible. A dirty solar panel will not fully charge the battery and thus shorten the battery life. Operating solar lights covered with dirt and debris may cause the light to malfunction. To maintain high performance make sure to clean the panel regularly with a dry cloth and warm soapy water. 
Battery replacement Generally speaking, the rechargeable battery can be replaced every two years in order to maintain the maximum capacity. If you have a long winter or extreme weather conditions in your area, it would be better to change the battery every year.Source: solartown.com