Thursday March 29 2018 E-procurement to save government Shs700 billion This is expected to increase revenue collections and government savings to about Shs700b annually. FILE PHOTO In Summary A linkage will also be created, attaching Uganda Revenue Authority, NIRA, Ministry of Finance meaning that prior to acceptance of a bid, the bidder’s details and tax compliance, among others will be known. Advertisement By Christine Kasemiire 
Kampala. Government expects the number of bids on tenders to rise to between three to five per day once the electronic government procurement system (EGPS) starts, according to the Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority (PPDA). 
Speaking at the inaugural meeting of the project in Kampala on Tuesday, Mr Benson Turamye, the PPDA acting executive director, said the confidence among bidders will be a culmination of the reforms in the procurement processes. 
“The electronic government procurement is going to transform the procurement process in this country because the paper procurement will be no more, it will be automated, bidders are going to bid online and entities are going to issue bidding documents online,” he said. 
In January 2019, bids from 10 government ministries will be placed online and it is expected to reduce corruption tendencies as there will be less interface. 
The system, which is being collaborated by the Ministry of Finance, National Information Technology Authority Uganda and PPDA, is being fast trucked by January next year. This is expected to increase revenue collections and government savings to about Shs700b annually. 
A linkage will also be created, attaching Uganda Revenue Authority, NIRA, Ministry of Finance meaning that prior to acceptance of a bid, the bidder’s details and tax compliance, among others will be known. 
Fast trucking Achieved: According to Ms Florence Nakyeyune, the project manager, the fast trucking of the e-procurement system will be achieved under five working groups including financial management services and communication, among others. editorial@ug.nationmedia.com