Thursday March 29 2018 FDC, police trade accusations over Muzanira’s welcome party On Sunday, the police blocked the procession of hundreds of people, who had assembled at Kahengye (Ntungamo-Rukungiri border) to welcome Ms Betty Muzanira (FDC), as she returned from Kampala after court ruled in her favour. Courtesy photo In Summary The Rukungiri NRM Revival Association chairperson, Mr Robert Natukunda, said they are prepared to hit the ground running and campaign for Ms Masiko.The EC deputy spokesperson, Mr Paul Bukenya, said the by-election road map will be out soon. Key issue. EC in 2016 declared Ms Masiko winner of the election after polling 58,994 (51.69 per cent) against Ms Muzanira’s 54,966, (48.31 per cent). Ms Muzanira contested the vote citing voter bribery. Advertisement By PEREZ RUMANZI & ALFRED TUMUSHABE 
RUKUNGIRI. Political tension is boiling in Rukungiri after the Court of Appeal overturned the district Woman Member of Parliament, Ms Winfred Masiko’s, victory and ordered for a fresh election last week. The court ruled that Ms Masiko committed illegal acts of giving out donations to voters at various churches during the campaign period ahead of the poll. 
On Sunday, the police blocked the procession of hundreds of people, who had assembled at Kahengye (Ntungamo-Rukungiri border) to welcome Ms Betty Muzanira (FDC), as she returned from Kampala after court ruled in her favour. 
Police arrested and later led Ms Muzanira to her home in a bid to cut off the her jubilant supporters.Commenting about the heated political environment, the Rukungiri Municipality MP, Mr Roland Mugume Kaginda, expressed fear that the playing field is not levelled so far.He said Ms Muzanira was stopped by the police from celebrating the court victory with her supporters and yet the NRM candidates, who win court cases are not subjected to any restrictions. 
“We are much worried that security officials have taken sides even before we get into the by-election. We want to know why our candidate was stopped from celebrating her victory yet we see all the NRM candidates, who win making celebrations on streets,” said Mr Mugume on Tuesday.But the district police commander, Mr Moses Nanoka, said the organisers did inform police about Ms Muzanira’s celebrations. 
“They had not informed the police about their procession and they planned to hold a rally after reaching town, which is not acceptable because they would disrupt people’s businesses and other road users,” he explained. 
Mr Kaginda, who is heading Ms Muzanira’s campaign taskforce, expressed fear that the election might turn violent if security agencies attempt to disrupt Opposition campaigns.“We are prepared; the people of Rukungiri have always been prepared for them (police) and we can’t allow them to interfere. The people will defend their rights and votes, they are not going to relent,” said Mr Mugume. 
The truth Ms Muzanira said the by-election will bring out the truth about who won in 2016. “This will be the first by-election in Rukungiri District. There have been so many election messes in the past but we have not been going to court, our people are ready they know whom they voted and who rightfully was voted into Parliament. I think this is the right time for this by-election. I thank court for doing justice,” Ms Muzanira said.Ms Masiko will again contest in the by-election on the NRM ticket and she is optimistic that she will win.“All my supporters who voted me are still there, I will still win and go back to Parliament,” she said on Tuesday. 
The Rukungiri NRM Revival Association chairperson, Mr Robert Natukunda, said they are prepared to hit the ground running and campaign for Ms Masiko.The EC deputy spokesperson, Mr Paul Bukenya, said the by-election road map will be out soon. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com