Thursday March 29 2018 Lake Munyanyange under threat Cleared. Mr Nicholas Kagongo (left), a National Association of Professional Environmentalists (NAPE) official in Kasese Sub-region, shows how the area has been cleared recently. PHOTO BY FELIX BASIIME In Summary Environmentalists have opposed the development and believe that if not stopped, their acts will threaten the existence of Lake Munyanyange, which is one of the top tourist attractions in the region. Mr Nicholas Kagongo, an official with National Association of Professional Environmentalists, said more than 100 euphorbia trees have been cut down on the north shoreline of Lake Munyanyange by Uganda Prisons. Advertisement By FELIX BASIIME 
KASESE. Lake Munyanyange one of the four salty lakes in Kasese District, is under threat following the giveaway of part of its catchment areas to developers.This follows the recent move by Katwe-Kabatooro Town Council to give away about 5 acres of land to Uganda Prisons. 
The land is close to Lake Munyanyange, an international bird sanctuary, as well as a migratory location for the lesser flamingos from August to November every year.The neighbouring Lake Katwe has a salt rock that lies on a contour line connecting Munyanyange, Nyamunuka and Kasenyi (Bunyampaka). 
According to the regional prisons commander, Mr James Emotu, the urban authority opted to use Uganda Prisons land, which is also in Katwe-Kabatooro Town Council but far from the lakes in exchange with their land, which is in the low land near the lakes. 
Mr Emotu said: “They (Urban authority) opted to use land where we are located, ours is on a hilly area and they relocated us to that place, which is about five acres. To that effect, we have started clearing the place.”He added that the Uganda Prisons is clearing up the area to set up staff houses, a prison and a playground. 
The Katwe-Kabatooro Town clerk, Mr Godwin Bihanikire, admitted to have given away part of the catchment area of Lake Munyanyange to prisons.However, he was quick to add that they (prisons) could have gone beyond the point where they were allocated before promising to intervene. 
Environmentalists have opposed the development and believe that if not stopped, their acts will threaten the existence of Lake Munyanyange, which is one of the top tourist attractions in the region.Mr Nicholas Kagongo, an official with National Association of Professional Environmentalists, said more than 100 euphorbia trees have been cut down on the north shoreline of Lake Munyanyange by Uganda Prisons. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com