Thursday March 29 2018 UCC must get practical on SIM card directives Uganda Communications Commission has issued new tough requirements for SIM card swaps and replacements. Photo By Stephen Otage Advertisement By Editor 
New conditions have been given to telecom companies in a bid to streamline registration of SIM cards. Recently, the Uganda Communications Commission (UCC) banned the sale of SIM cards by agents for the same purpose. Now it has issued other new rules to telecom companies regarding registration of SIM cards. Under the new rules, to swap or replace a SIM card, the subscriber must present a police report and a letter from the National Identification and Registration Authority (NIRA) verifying the subscriber’s bio data. The telecom companies are required to comply. However, there is doubt whether UCC has the capacity to detect in case the phone companies do not comply. And that is very critical. The new rules are well-intended. However, the worry is how feasible the implementation is. No matter how severe or stringent they sound, they will be a futility if they cannot be enforced.Last year, UCC issued similar directives and conditions to telecom companies to de-register or deactivate all SIM cards, which were not be registered using the National ID particulars. There had been pretence or blind belief that this requirement had been complied with until the kidnap and murder of Susan Magara last month exposed this farce. The killers used SIM cards in names of purported subscribers whose bio-data could not be traced or verified in the NIRA national data base.It had been assumed that registration of SIM cards using National ID would help check crime because criminals’ call data would be traced to the owner. However, it has emerged that this method has a huge defect that criminals have exploited. It has become easy for criminals to register SIM cards in names, which appear on other people’s National IDs as long as they can know their birthdates. This loophole is something that the government must address quickly before issuing high-sounding stringent conditions that may not count. Telecom companies have already expressed skepticism in the practicability of these new rules given the challenges in verifying subscribers’ data from NIRA as previous cases have shown.The UCC has also said that under the new rules, the telecom companies will ensure that any swapped or replacement SIM card is used in a genuine phone. Again UCC does not seem to have a clue how to detect if the telecom companies do not comply as has been the case with previous directives on phone usage.Government must sort out the defects in the NIRA data base and UCC must also establish a practical mechanism to access telecom firms’ data base to check whether the stipulated SIM card registration procedures have been adhered to. Short of that, no amount or severity of conditions announced on paper will achieve anything. UCC, get practical. 
The issue: SIM cards Our view: UCC must also establish a practical mechanism to access telecom firms’ data base to check whether the stipulated SIM card registration procedures have been adhered to. advertisement