Police in Kampala close businesses dealing in fake agricultural inputs   
Police in conjunction with officials from the Ministry of Agriculture Animal Industry and Fisheries on Wednesday arrested shop owners and closed businesses dealing in suspected counterfeit herbicides, veterinary medicine among other agricultural products to farmers. 
The operation led by Alex Twebaze an officer from the ministry targeted shops around Cooper Complex, Nakivubo Street where a number of suspected counterfeit Agro Vet Chemicals and drugs were confiscated. The fake products were mainly expired seeds, seeds with forged labels, adulterated chemicals, seeds mixed with food colour, among others The operation led to the successfully unearthing of two stores used for mixing and packaging fake chemicals that would later be distributed to Agro Vet shops country wide. - Advertisement - 
Forged labels and packaging materials of reputable agricultural companies were being used making it hard to be distinguished by farmers. According to Uganda National Agro-input Dealers Association, (Unada), close to Shs14b is lost annually through counterfeit agro-chemicals. This is corroborated by a Food and Agriculture Organisation study that revealed that in 2012, Uganda lost Shs13.8b in fake agro-chemicals. 
According to a 2014 report from Transparency International looking at the markets in Uganda and Ghana, the global value lost due to counterfeiting in 2013 was estimated to be $1.4b from $775m in 2008. “This challenge is not tied to Uganda alone, it is a global challenge and more to Africa,” said Peter Wandera, executive director Transparency International Uganda. 
read: 60% of essential medicines in circulation in Africa are fake, substandard- WHO 
In Uganda, the prevalence of counterfeiting is highest within herbicides. Counterfeiting in maize seeds, especially hybrid varieties is also prevalent, but less in herbicides. Smallholder farmers rarely use fertiliser and therefore counterfeiting is not as prevalent as in the other two value chains but remains a recognised issue.