  Principal Judge, Hon. Justice Dr. Yorokamu Bamwine, has allocated the newly judges positions and also transferred High Court judges. The Principal Judge heads the High Court and is responsible for management of the court, including assigning duties to member judges. 
Hon.Justice Dr. Bamwine in his posting circular dated March 27, 2018 noted that the deployment of the 10 new judges is meant for more efficient delivery of judicial services. The outgoing Chief Registrar, Hon. Justice Gadenya Paul Wolimbwa, will now handle Judiciary Projects and double as a Judge in the Executions and Bailiffs division. Hon.Justice Alex Ajiji is posted to Lira High Court, Hon. Lady Justice Cornelia Kakooza Sabiiti is posted to the Land Division, Hon. Justice Tadeo Asiimwe goesto Mbale High Court, and Hon. Lady Justice Olive Kazaarwe Mukwaya is posted to the Commercial Division. - Advertisement - 
Other postings are; Hon. Lady Justice Jane Frances Abodo in Criminal Division, Hon. Justice Musa Sekaana is posted to the Civil Division, Hon. Justice Emmanuel Baguma is posted to Gulu High Court, Hon. Lady Justice Joyce Kavuma is posted to Mbarara High Court while Hon. Justice Richard Wejuli Wabwire is posted to Fort PortalHigh Court. In his circular, the Principal Judge noted that because of the deployment of the10 new judges, there was need for him to also cause changes at the top leadership of the various divisions of the High Court. 
“Following the recent appointments of new judges to the High Court, it has become necessary to effect some changes in the management of the divisions and circuits,” the circular read in part. The changes at the various high court divisions and circuits include; Hon.Justice Dr. Andrew Bashaija who has been heading the Lands division will now head the Civil Division of the High Court replacing Hon. Justice Stephen Musota who has been promoted to the Court of Appeal. Hon.Justice John Eudes Keitirima who has been the Senior Masaka Resident Judge will now take over at the Land Division. 
Hon.Justice Duncan Gaswaga will leave Mbarara High Court to head the Executions and Bailiffs Division. Hon.Justice Geoffrey Namundi now becomes the Head of the Family Division. Lira Resident Judge, Hon. Lady Justice Dr. Winfred Nabisinde will now move to Masaka High Court. Hon.Lady Justice Margaret Oumo-Oguli now moves to the International Crimes Division where she will deputize Hon. Justice Moses Mukiibi. Hon. Lady Justice Henrietta Wolayo becomes the deputy head of the Civil Division. The circular states that although the postings take immediate effect they are subject to the usual completion of partly heard cases in advanced stages at the current station. - Advertisement -