Thursday March 29 2018 Set career plans early enough, students advised NSSF public relations manager Victor Karamaji at NSSFMPL expo held at MUST. PHOTO BY FELIX AINEBYOONA In Summary Mr Victor Karamagi said students should not wait until they are out of university to think about what they can concentrate on for a livelihood, and when and how to expand their skills and knowledge. Mbarara Mayor Robert Mugabe Kakyebezi who was among the guest speakers advised students to be confident while hunting for jobs and pursuing their dreams if they are to succeed. Advertisement By Felix Ainebyoona & Alfred Tumushabe 
Students in institutions of higher learning have been challenged to set goals and career plans early enough if they are to be successful after school. 
Speaking at the NSSF and Daily Monitor Career Expo at Mbarara University of Science and Technology (MUST) on March 28, NSSF Public Relations Manager Mr Victor Karamagi said students should not wait until they are out of university to think about what they can concentrate on for a livelihood, and when and how to expand their skills and knowledge.“By now if you are a third year student, have an idea of what you want to do after MUST or what you want to be 10 years from today. To get what you want to be, you must set your goals. It is easier to get where you want to go if you have your path well planned out,’’ said Mr Karamaji.He added, “You must know where you want to go. If you do not know, you will not get anywhere. What do you need to get there? If you do not know, you will not achieve much.” 
Mbarara Mayor Robert Mugabe Kakyebezi who was among the guest speakers advised students to be confident while hunting for jobs and pursuing their dreams if they are to succeed.“Lack of confidence is a challenge to many young people today. Most young people who have even completed university find it hard to approach someone when they need a job. You need to be confident to approach anybody and let them know of your problem,’’ said Mr Kakyebezi. 
He asked students to be creative and keep time after getting get jobs.The tendency of poor time management, Mr Kakyebezi said, greatly affects personal and organizational performance.He added, “I was very much committed to my work. I used to wake up at 4am every day for my morning [radio] programme and I would keep time. But one of the challenges we have in Uganda is time management. You call people for a meeting at 9 am but they come at 11 am and they tell you that it is African time." 
Mr Janan Mubehamwe, a guest speaker, told students that employers consider attitude when recruiting. “Your chances of getting a job are also about your attitude. It is not all about you scoring a first class degree, it is not about you being beautiful and neither is it about you being smart. Before they give you the job, the panelists look at your attitude in regard to how you are answering,’’ said Mr Mubehamwe. 
Co-sponsors of the expo include Post Bank, Kampala Capital City Authority, Housing Finance Bank, Centenary Bank, Student Lounge, NTV, Café Javas, CBA and Roast Sphere. advertisement