Kasaija asks IGG, Mutebile to calm down Finance minister Matia Kasaija. FILE PHOTO In Summary Asked who then is criminally culpable, he replied: “Ask the [BoU] Executive Director for Supervision [Ms Justine Bagyenda]”. Advertisement By Paul Tajuba 
Kampala. Finance minister Matia Kasaija has warned the Inspector General of Government and the Central Bank Governor that if they don’t stop fighting, the reputation of the country will be ‘badly damaged’. 
The minister, who was the chief guest at the Forum for Women in Democracy (FOWODE) gender responsive budgeting event in Kampala yesterday, said the fights “are unnecessary” and called for dialogue. “Why don’t they sit and talk? They are writing, writing, writing why? I think writing is not good, let them sit and have the issued resolved,” Mr Kasaija said. 
“Those fights are not good [for the country]. These are two big offices exchanging [abusive] and highly charged letters. As a minister, I don’t support it because these things may be picked up by international donor community and they damage our reputation as a country.” 
Mr Emmanuel Tumusiime-Mutebile and Ms Irene Mulyagonja have been embroiled in an antagonistic public exchange that was triggered by a contested reshuffle of senior executives and staff at Bank of Uganda (BoU) on January 7. 
On March 12, Ms Mulyagonja wrote to the board, which coincidentally is chaired by BoU Governor Tumusiime Mutebile, directing that the staff changes be put on hold pending disposal of the dispute into alleged unfair appointments. 
A week later, Mr Mutebile wrote back telling off Ms Mulyagonja that her “investigation is redundant” and she had no power to direct the central bank on how to do its work. He said decisions of the central bank are protected against external influence under the Constitution. 
Staff changes Trouble started after Mr Mutebile retired Ms Justine Bagyenda, the director commercial banks supervision at BoU and replaced her with Dr Tumubweine Twinemanzi from Uganda Communications. 
The staff changes at BoU were triggered by Crane Bank takeover following criticism that the bank had previously received a clean bill of health from the supervision directorate. 
The Governor, in a 2017 interview with the Daily Monitor said he was “sorry” and would take responsibility for “what went wrong” but added that “I am not criminally culpable”.Asked who then is criminally culpable, he replied: “Ask the [BoU] Executive Director for Supervision [Ms Justine Bagyenda]”. 
ptajuba@ug.nationmedia.com