Tweet Eating too much can kill you 
Finally we have come to the conclusion that our brains are to blame when we eat too much. Don’t argue because this is the truth. Ever opened up a bag of chips planning to have a small snack, only to find yourself peering into an empty bag, just a few moments later? 
Your brain is to blame. Our rational, conscious brain thinks it’s in charge. It’s the brain behind the notion that “I eat what I want, when I want it. And I stop when I want to”. Maybe we have a lot less control than that. Behind our decision-making processes are physiological forces we are never even aware of. 
There are people who have vowed never to joke with food. They feel it is their duty to destroy whatever comes onto their plates. In fact they don’t eat to live; but they live to eat. 
They are not even ready to listen carefully and maybe establish if they are now satisfied but just continue eating. Many people, including me, go into a meal with good intentions but when into it, we forget and keep munching more food even after hunger has subsided. 
People love their food to the point that they even go into eating competitions. In tales you are even advised never to get between a man and his food. Eating contests rank among the most controversial types of competitions in the world. While many people and all medical associations find these contests extremely disgusting and dangerous to human health, there are still a lot of those who enjoy watching or even competing. 
If your community has ever organized a contesting, I firmly believe they have organized weird and craziest contests like US’ legendary Nathan’s Hot Dog Eating Contest , World Ice Cream Eating Championship and of course the Donkey penis eating contest. One is left wondering if these people are aware that eating too much has health implications. But has it ever crossed your mind that eating too much can be bad? 
In the age of social and viral media, food-eating contests have become as popular as sporting events, their winners crowned heroes. But last year, two people were grossly affected while participating in an eating contest. 
On March 31 2017, Caitlin Nelson, a 21-year-old student at Connecticut’s Sacred Heart University, choked while participating in a pancake-eating contest. 
Officers called to the scene had to physically remove food that had been lodged in her throat. In the following month a man in Texas was choked to death while engaged in the company’s popular doughnut-eating contest. You might be the next victim if you don’t watch out.