Two ministers named in Mukono church land grab State minister for Water, Mr Ronald Kibuule. FILE PHOTO In Summary Issue. According to Dr Ssenyonyi, the encroachers have constructed houses on the contested land. Intervention. Justice Catherine Bamugemereire who chairs the land probe said t the commission will summon the named parties and that investigations will continue. Advertisement By EPHRAIM KASOZI & JALIRA NAMYALO 
Kampala. Two ministers and government agencies have been accused of grabbing acres of land belonging to the Church of Uganda in Mukono District.Among others, State minister for Water, Mr Ronald Kibuule and State minister for ICT, Ms Idah Nantaba were named before the Commission of Inquiry into land matters. 
The land in dispute located at Ntawo-Muzingo Village in Mukono Municipality is part of the church land under the Uganda Christian University (UCU) Holdings measuring 649.2 acres.Appearing before the Commission, the Vice Chancellor of UCU, Dr John Ssenyonyi, testified that high ranking government officers including Minister Kibuule were forcefully encroaching on church land. 
He said that Mr Kibuule owns a palatial house on the disputed land but that the time of his settling on the disputed land is not known and his house was only seen in 2015.“We have not communicated to him because his house is on the side which is hostile,” said Dr Ssenyonyi, also naming former Buikwe South MP, Mr Anthony Mukasa, who also settled on the land without consent from the Church and constructed a house on part of it. 
Others accusedOthers on the land include Maj Gen Proscovia Nalweyiso, who however is a recognised bonafide holder but people are trying to use her to grab the land.“The person who has caused us more problems lately is Mr Kibuule because even the people who get arrested, he ends up being the person who bails them out on bond,” Dr Ssenyonyi added. 
Other people who have caused the church failure to develop their land include a Local Council leader, Mr Male Byekwaso, who is a mobiliser of squatters and also signs on the sale agreements and his defence secretary only identified as Wasswa, a retired UPDF soldier Musinguzi Kazayi, is accused of destroying a forest near UCU. 
The vice chancellor lamented that despite several reports made to police and courts of law, nothing has been done to stop the encroachers. He also reported that a case of incitement to violence that has happened on the land where Minister Nantaba told squatters to rebel. 
“During her tenure as State minister for Lands, she [Nantaba] came on the land and told the squatters to reject us with rebellion. This happened in January 2013 at the time when we were trying to negotiate with the settlers on our land and no fruit seen,” he said.Also named is lawyer Peter Mulira belonging to Ham Mukasa family who is accused of laying claim on the land. 
According to Dr Ssenyonyi, the Mr Mulira claimed that the church ownership was a mere lease of 99 years yet they own a freehold title.Dr Ssenyonyi also accused the Mukono Agricultural Research Centre under National Agricultural Research Organisation of refusing to vacate their land upon expiry of their 49-year lease. 
He testified that efforts to have the government agency vacate to allow them develop it have been rendered futile and as a result, Uganda Land Commission sued the university and the Church challenging the eviction. 
Attacks on church of Uganda bishops 
Testimony. Citing a number of ongoing court cases and those determined in favour of UCU Holdings Limited, Dr Ssenyonyi testified that in 2016, a mob attacked the bishops while touring the land forcing them to flee for their safety. 
He reported that a group of people is going on parcelling out the church land to pave way for the construction of various buildings without the consent of the registered owners.“I took the trouble to talk to Male and at one point he made sure that we don’t meet in Ntawo. When he talked to me, I thought we were going to make some headway but later, I heard that he is among the people intending to keep us out of the land,” Dr Ssenyonyi testified. 
Intervention. Justice Catherine Bamugemereire who chairs the land probe said t the commission will summon the named parties and that investigations will continue. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com