Thursday March 29 2018 Engineers, contractors protest new govt rules Mr Daniel Lokong, the UNABCEC executive director, said the new guidelines mean that a successful international bidder could sub-contract to its Ugandan franchise, crowding out local contractors. FILE PHOTO In Summary Business threat. The group says the new guidelines will allow a successful international bidder to sub-contract to its Ugandan franchise, leaving local contractors. "Most of our contractors are now going to close shop with the enforcement of the new guidelines. Others have made investments in bringing in heavy machinery hoping to be service providers for the foreign firms, but now with the rich resident providers, what shall we gain?” David Ogwang,UNABCEC board chairman Advertisement By MISAIRI THEMBO KAHUNGU 
Kampala. Ugandan construction contractors and engineers have asked the government to enact a law on local content so that indigenous entrepreneurs do not lose all lucrative infrastructure projects to foreigners. 
The demand for the Local Content Act, the proposed legislation, was made by the leadership of the Uganda National Association of Building and Civil Engineering Contractors (UNABCEC) following a revision of procurement rules to incorporate resident entities as equivalent Ugandan companies. 
The Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority (PPDA) began implementing the new reservation scheme guidelines aimed at promoting local content in the public procurement on February 15. 
Guidelines The government issued guidelines under Section 2(1) of which an international bidder was obliged to sub-contract at least 30 per cent public works of a value exceeding Shs45b to a local provider. 
Officially called ‘Buy Uganda Build Uganda’ (Bubu), the initiative was created to build the capacity of local service providers and boost industrial production in the country.The new procurement guidelines, however, incorporate resident entities as eligible to compete for 30 per cent share of any public works worth Shs45b or above, reversing the expected dividends of such contracts being ring-fenced for Ugandans. 
“A reservation of at least 30 per cent of the value of works through subcontracting of sub-works and supply of materials, equipment and services to national and resident providers shall apply to procurements of roadworks above Shs45b and other works above Shs10b where the bidder is a foreign provider,” Section 2(1) of the guidelines reads. Mr Daniel Lokong, the UNABCEC executive director, said the new guidelines mean that a successful international bidder could sub-contract to its Ugandan franchise, crowding out local contractors. 
Mr Lokong said such an arrangement is bad for both business and the country’s development since foreign firms repatriate profits.“As UNABCEC, we are now demanding that Parliament comes to our rescue by enacting a Local Content Act to protect the interests of the local contractors because the new guidelines have come to knock us out of the market since we cannot compete with the multinationals,” he said. 
Indigenous firms have routinely lost on bigger infrastructure projects due to inadequate technical capacity as well as financing handicaps, with mainly Chinese companies snapping up the lucrative deals such as the construction of Karuma and Isimba dams. Similar concerns have been raised during the exploration and field development phases in the nascent oil and gas sector, years before production begins. 
Mr David Ogwang, the UNABCEC board chairman, said most local engineering contractors rely on bank loans for financing and, as such, their inability to win could undermine the industry, pile up bad loans and destabilise the financial sector.According to Mr Godfrey Rwakafunjo, the UNABCEC programmes coordinator, the PPDA provisions for bidding for projects above Shs45b are “very strict” and disadvantage Ugandans due to lack of cheap local financing. 
Proposal The association has at least 400 registered contractors. It is asking the government to build their capacity through tenures where a local firm can be tested with tarmacking, for instance five kilometres of a road and upon satisfactory performance, be offered more works until it is capable of executing bigger projects. 
mkthembo@ug.nationmedia.com