Deputy Attorney General denies siring child with judge Deputy Attorney General Mwesigwa Rukutana. File photo Advertisement 
Mr Mwesigwa Rukutana, the Deputy Attorney General has described allegations that he fathered a child with Justice Elizabeth Musoke as false, malicious, unfounded and defamatory. 
In a March 29, 2018 letter to the Deputy Chief Justice Owiny Dollo, Mr Rukutana, who is also Member of Parliament for Rushenyi County in Ntungamo County, was responding to a letter by Mr Male Kiwanuka Mabirizi, one of the petitioners challenging the amendment of the Constitution to scrap Article 102(b) that had previously barred Ugandan citizens aged below 35 and above 75 from contesting for presidency. 
The petition is set to be heard by the Constitutional Court. 
Justice Owiny Dollo will head a panel of judges who include justices Remmy Kasule, Elizabeth Musoke, Kenneth Kakuru and Cheborion Barishaki. 
Mr Mabirizi, however, is objecting Justice Musoke’s involvmennt in the case arguing that she would be involved in her own case since she sired a child with Mr Rukutana, who is heading the government’s legal team. 
Mr Mabirizi further reasoned that the Justice Musoke would be going against the wishes of another minister, Eng Hillary Onek, the Minister for Relief, Disaster Preparedness and Refugees, who the petitioner says sired two children with her. 
Mr Onek, who represents Lamwo in Parliament, voted in favour of the Constitutional amendment in December last year, a position, Mr Mabirizi argues would put him and Justice Musoke at opposite ends of the case. 
But Mr Rukutana said that while he was not bothered by what he called 'wild' allegations, he was sympathetic with Justice Musoke and the disposition of court. 
He has asked court to establish whether Mr Mabirizi is a fit and sound and a proper person to engage in litigation by himself before the hearing of the petition. 
Justice Musoke had been consolidated together with four other judges in the matter coming up for hearing at Mbale on April 9, 2018. 
Last week, the Judiciary announced that the five age-limit constitutional petitions had been consolidated into one and would be heard from Mbale on April 4. 
Some of these petitioners include; Uganda Law Society (ULS), six opposition MPs led by the Leader of Opposition in Parliament, Ms Winnie Kiiza, city lawyer Male Mabirizi, former presidential candidate, Mr Abed Bwanika and Mr Prosper Businge, a concerned citizen from Western Uganda. Related Stories