School owners face court for defying KCCA order on closure State minister for Primary Education Rosemary Sseninde Advertisement By AMOS NGWOMOYA 
Kampala- Proprietors of four schools in Kawempe Division, Kampala, face prosecution for defying an order by KCCA to close for not meeting required minimum standards. 
The schools in question include Lawrie Park Nursery School, Blessed Nursery School, Dynamic Nursery and Primary School and Lugumba Nursery School. 
The Permanent Secretary in the Ministry of Education and Sports, Mr Alex Kakooza, on Tuesday said the ministry will soon issue a circular to all local governments to prosecute whoever defies the directive on closure. 
“Those schools will be prosecuted and all others that are defying government’s directive on closure will be prosecuted and I think that is when they will realise that we are serious on this matter,” Mr Kakooza said in a telephone interview. 
Last month, KCCA closed 21 schools in all the five city divisions of Kampala over non-compliance with the specified minimum standards. 
The closure was communicated to the affected schools by Mr Ambrose Atwoko, the KCCA deputy director of education, on February 2.The city authority argued that the affected schools pose risks to the lives of pupils but noted that they would be allowed to reopen for second term when they meet the required standards. 
Some of the set standards include having a licence, structures, school compound, a toilet, trained teachers, water and scholastic materials. 
When Daily Monitor visited some of the affected schools last week, none of them had any written clearance by KCCA, although the proprietors claimed they had been cleared by the authority. 
Mr Godfrey Mwanje, the proprietor of Dynamic Nursery and Primary School, said he was cleared by the Kawempe Division authorities. 
“They actually visited my school and found out that I had fulfilled some of the requirements and they allowed the school to reopen as I plug a few remaining gaps,” Mr Mwanje said, adding that permission to reopen was only verbal. 
Our repeated attempts to reach out to Kawempe Division mayor Emmanuel Sserunjogi were unsuccessful but Mr Atwoko was non-committal on whether KCCA had rescinded the directive on the closure. He had not got back to us by press time with an explanation as promised. 
For more than a week, our email queries to KCCA’s directorate of corporate and public affairs to clarify the matter remained unanswered. 
But some KCCA officials, who declined to be named, told this newspaper that the matter has become politicised, with some city politicians mobilisng parents and children of the affected schools to protest their closure. 
In January, parents stormed the residence of State minister for Primary Education Rosemary Sseninde with a petition against the closure of a number of private schools by government. 
However, the minister insisted on the closure, saying it is for their own good.Currently, government is cracking the whip on all schools across the country that do not meet the minimum standards set by the Education Act. angwomoya@ug.nationmedia.com