God saves us through sacrificial charity Advertisement By John Wynand Katende 
Good Friday is about salvation of man by God through man. It defines Christmas and Easter; namely, “from crib to cross”. The Cross is the icon of victory over evil. 
In his Lenten message, Pope Francis quotes Matthew 24:12: “Because of the increase of iniquity, the love of many will grow cold”. God looks down upon the degenerated and hopeless condition of mankind, and there is no man able to adequately deal with the prevailing social and moral evils, but Divine intervention. Yet the Divine operations for redemption from evil are committed to men/women, as agents, to apply. 
In every age, the experiment of man trying to save himself by man has proved a failure. This accounts for the great variety of religions, ideologies (communism and materialism, etc), great teachers and reformers, philosophical, moral, educational, scientific, economic, ritualistic and artistic systems, but all in vain. 
When the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, Jesus, and called his name Immanuel; which means God himself in the world saving men/women from their sins (Matthew 1:18-25). 
God’s salvation for moral beings must be appreciated as a moral miracle! It is not a display of impressive force, but the exertion of moral power upon them through moral influences and moral agents. 
The great deliverance of Israel from the Egyptian bondage, for example, was manifestly God’s redemption, and yet even in that case, God only saved man through man. Moses is prominent throughout the whole scene, and yet he never stands before God; he is only the agent. 
Social and moral evils cannot lie mastered by merely human forces, since man cannot, of himself, reach those deeper religious evils that lie at the root of the social ones. Every Good Friday means that God is in the midst of men/women, saving still, but only doing so through human agencies. He is saving men/women through those willing to be his witnesses and co-workers. 
“When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself.” says Jesus in John 12:32. As we preach Christ to men/women, we may have no power to save them; but as we lift Him up in the sight of men/women, we become God’s agents of salvation. Through our words of faith and persuasion, God moves and sways careless hearts, and wins sinners unto himself. 
God would save this country and its deteriorating environment, but only by the cooperation of the Christians and all people of good will. 
Salvation demands consent because God never forces Himself on someone against his will. The rich young man whom Jesus called lost his happiness because he refused to hand over his freedom to God (Matthew 19:22). 
He did not allow the grace of God to work in him. Each one of us should answer “yes” to the voice of God calling us to salvation. “God created us without us: but he did not will to save us without us,” acknowledges St Augustine.Jesus, acting as the Eternal High Priest and victim Lamb of God of the New Covenant, willingly (not passively) poured out His blood for us. 
Christians too are called to pour out their lives in service to God and others in Jesus’ name. So, for them be truly virtues, faith and hope must be completed by sacrificial charity. 
The Easter victory, rooted in Good Friday, invites us to turn our gaze to the crucified Jesus, for the realisation of the continued redemption of our society. 
This is the core of the active remembrance of the sacrifice of Calvary at every Mass, as commanded by Jesus (Luke 21:19). Every Mass, hence, becomes a mission. Happy Easter. 
jwkatende@yahoo.com