Use Easter to preach peace Advertisement 
Today, Christians all over the world, mark the long Easter holiday. This is in commemoration of the dual fulfilment of God’s will that saw first, the Crucification of Jesus today (Good Friday) and second, the good news, three days later, of His resurrection on Easter Sunday. 
Easter holiday is enthusiastically welcomed, not only by Christians, but also by members of other faiths. It is a time when individuals, families and communities take to merry-making. Many people use the long holiday to travel up-country to celebrate Easter with family and friends. Those who do not travel to their villages still use the festive season to go for prayers, visit beaches, museums, night clubs, and zoos, among other happening places. 
Given the various activities that people engage in during Easter, and without appearing to limit people’s happiness and ways of merry-making, it is important that a word of caution is passed on to all. 
We should all be alive to the fact that in times like this, not everyone has good intentions. Whether in and around churches, markets, in taxis and buses and even in your neighbourhood, people must take maximum care of their lives. 
Faced with rising cases of kidnaps, killings, burglary, pick pocketing, etc, we advise everyone to take maximum precaution to avoid endangering their lives and other problems. 
Considering that we are living in times of increasing immorality in the country where some of the rich and the powerful are turning into land grabbers, where teachers defile their students, where worship houses are being turned into ATM machines, where domestic violence is on the rise, and where the number of believers are increasing and so is the crime rate, we must all be our neighbours’ keeper. 
Most importantly, religious leaders should use this Easter to preach a message of tolerance, peaceful co-existence love and being humble just like Jesus lived and preached. 
The clergy should also not spare the corrupt in their congregations to stop the vice, which is largely responsible for the evident poor service delivery in the country. 
This Easter presents us all a very rare opportunity to reflect on our lives and ensure that where we have faltered, we should get back on our feet and align lives with the life Jesus lived. Surely, the resurrection of Jesus provides humanity the chance to know that death is not an end in itself because there is life after death. We wish you happy Easter holidays. advertisement