Before proposing in public, make sure she will say yes Not every relationship is meant to end in marriage In Summary If it had been, Doreen would have told him that she was not ready for marriage. She had dreams, which she wanted to first accomplish. So yes, maybe she would love to marry this man but not at the time. Advertisement 
The idea of throwing red petals in a public place and watching your girlfriend walk into the room with hair bouncing at the rhythm of the wind as you get down on one knee to ask, “Will you marry me?” can bring chills down your stomach. And the thought of people applauding when she says “yes” can be tempting but before you give in to this fantasy trend, you might want to take a step back and know whether you are on the same page. So many people have fallen prey to this humiliation at malls, airports and other public places but people do not seem to learn a lesson. 
If marriage proposal was an examination, I would advise you to cheat before you sit for it. Not every relationship is meant to end in marriage, I have mentioned that before and as much as most people will call it pessimism, I will say it is being realistic. Most people are in relationships for company as they decide whether to promote it to another level or terminate it. It is absurd to assume that just because she introduces you as her boyfriend that she is actually ready to settle down with you. You need to introduce the topic before going public. Doreen ran away when her boyfriend proposed at the mall, she was having ice cream and all of a sudden, she noticed people filming the whole event. The camera flashlights blinded her and the band playing in the background froze her mind. 
She remembers seeing the ring but not hearing the words. She threw the ice cream cup and rushed out of the mall.“A public marriage proposal is total blackmail.” She said. “Because his friends and relatives were there, I felt guilty saying no but I do not like being pressured.” 
Before we judge Doreen, lets analyse the situation. Doreen is a second year University student. She has been dating this guy for eight months and marriage has never been a part of their conversation. If it had been, Doreen would have told him that she was not ready for marriage. She had dreams, which she wanted to first accomplish. So yes, maybe she would love to marry this man but not at the time. After she had calmed down, she tried calling the guy but his phone was off. It has been off for over a week and he is not at his apartment. None of his friends wants to talk to Doreen. Some relatives have even called her ugly names. 
She has tried to explain but no one is listening. The fact is, commitment scares everyone. If you have found the right one, I suggest you first check with her before taking your emotions to the entire public. You might never recover from the embarrassment and humiliation.