Bulega still wary of defence as Crested Cranes seek result in Machakos Advertisement By Makhtum muziransa Muziransa 
KAMPALA. 
Crested Cranes have their work cut out in pursuit of a maiden appearance at the Africa Women’s Nations Cup later in the year.In the way lies an in-form Kenyan team that beat them 4-0 in 2016 in a friendly and at the Cecafa Women’s Championhips and has just returned home after a 0-3 win over Zambia. The two East African sides clash in the first leg of the qualifiers on April 4 in Machakos before the return leg in Lugogo on April 8. The winner of the tie will then face Equatorial Guinea for a place at the November 17- December 1 finals in Ghana.So in every way, coach Faridah Bulega’ side confronts a tough opponent and a poor record. Yet if Uganda is to spring a surprise, and there is always a place for those in football, Crested Cranes must be sharper in defence. “There is still a lot we can do with our organization in defence,” Bulega said after her side beat a Kampala Select team 2-1 in a warm-up game on Wednesday at Islamic University In Uganda (IUIU), Kabojja.The Crested Cranes have been in a residential camp since Sunday and will play a final warm up game today (there were no details by press time) to test the defence.Bulega has so far put her trust in the central defence pairing of Shadia Nankya and Yudaya Nakayenze while Grace Aluka and Viola Namuddu play as fullbacks.This is a younger and different defence from what Bulega’s former boss and predecessor Majidah Nantanda used at Cecafa. Cecafa had the out of favour Glady’s Nakitto, retired captain Christine Wanyana and unsummoned Stellah Nassuna. Nakayenze played as rightback while Joan Nakirya, now in USA, was tested at leftback too while Namuddu hardly got off the bench. “We have very limited time at the national team but I am happy that the players are fitter and lighter now. If we get it right in defence, we shall get a draw in Kenya then come win it at home,” Bulega, who still has to drop seven of the 25 players in camp, said.“We still have time to drop and maybe add in an exceptional player that we might have left out,” she added. advertisement