Fr. Anthony Musaala re-admitted into Catholic Church March 29, 2018 File photo - Advertisement - 
Fr. Anthony Musaala, a popular Catholic Charismatic preacher and influential gospel artiste, has been re-admitted into the Catholic Church. Musala was re-admitted after a liturgical celebration at Rubaga Cathedral whose main celebrant was the archbishop for Kampala, Cyprian Kizito Lwanga. He was readmitted together with Fr Deogratias Sonko who publicly quit the church in July 2016 together with Fr Jacinto Kibuuka to join the Evangelical Orthodox Church. 
During the service, Musaala, expressed his willingness to return to service. Fr Musaala was suspended on March 19, 2013 for advocating for marriage among Catholic priests. On May 16, 2016, he was issued with a letter of ‘automatic self-excommunication,’ after he made statements in the mass media, which his superiors interpreted to be “injurious to the faith and morals of the Roman Catholic Church and its faithful.” - Advertisement - 
In an open letter to [dated March 12th 2013] bishops, priests and laity: Musaala revealed failure of celibate chastity among diocesan priests 
In the letter Musaala noted ‘ ‘It is an open secret that many catholic priests and some bishops, in Uganda and elsewhere, no longer live celibate chastity. From the numerous cases on the ground one might be forgiven for saying that most diocesan priests either don’t believe in celibacy anymore, or if they do, have long since given up the struggle to be chaste. In any case it still seems important for priests to vow even a woefully imperfect celibacy, if only for the sake of the hallowed ‘priestly image’’ he noted. 
However in October last year, while attending mass at Christ the King church, Fr Musaala expressed willingness to return to his mother church. Later in a long message on Facebook, the priest confirmed he intends to rekindle the spark with his mother church. “I have received many affirming messages about my own journey back to the Catholic church. Thank you for your kind prayers and support. Some have asked me innocently if prematurely, which parish I am now serving in, or when I will be celebrating mass again, or when my next gospel show will be. Frankly, I don’t know. All I know is that I am in the process of returning to the church and that I am barely inside the door. I am still discovering what returning involves. Like the prodigal son I am taking each stage on the journey in a considered way, hoping for that final joy, when the father says: “ ‘My son who was dead is alive, and who was lost is found.’ And they began to celebrate.” (Luke 15:24),” he wrote. 
“The famous parable of the Prodigal son has insights for anyone who is trying to sort out their lives. I happen to be one of them. I am on a journey of return to the church, and so the parable is very apt for me,” he said. 
As a result, Lwanga suspended Fr. Musaala saying that his letter has caused immense suffering to the Catholic Church that seems to cast a dark shadow of suspicion on all catholic priests. He also accused Fr. Musaala of using wrong forum to address the issues in the letter. Dr. Lwanga argues that the decision by the priest to circulate the letter online was an act of indiscipline and suspicious. The suspension of Fr Musaala has drawn mixed reaction amongst catholic faithfuls. Joseph Kalungi, the Head of Laity Masaka Diocese says he is surprised by Musaala’s letter and his subsequent suspension. Kalungi declined to comment further saying that he was not allowed by the church to talk about the suspension. - Advertisement -