Emirates trials innovative headsets in its Dubai airport lounges for an immersive cinematic experience March 29, 2018 - Advertisement - 
Emirates is providing an immersive cinematic experience in its lounges in Dubai International Airport by providing Skylights theatre headsets to customers. The headsets are being trialled in the Business Class lounge in Concourse B for the month of April and in the First Class lounge in concourse B in May. 
The introduction of these innovative new headsets is part of Emirates’ continued commitment to improve the customer experience both on the ground and in flight. Offering a fixed-screen with a wide-angle field of view for 3D and 2D content, each Skylight theatre headset weighs only 120g and offers a Full HD viewing experience. - Advertisement - 
Its in-built sound and video allow customers to fully immerse themselves in what they are watching. A mix of content will be available including 3D & 2D movies, box sets, documentaries and 360-degree videos. Movies include Alien: Covenant; Batman vs Superman: Dawn of Justice; and Boss Baby, as well as episodes of documentaries such as Cosmos and Planet Earth. The service is complimentary and Emirates plans to roll out the experience across all its lounges in Dubai if the trial is well received. 
Dubai International Airport is home to seven Emirates lounges spread over three concourses – A, B and C. In each of the concourses there is a dedicated Emirates First Class and Business Class lounge. Entry is complimentary for those travelling in Business or First Class as well as Emirates Skywards Silver, Gold and Platinum members. Emirates Skywards Blue members can visit the lounge for a fee. 
All Emirates lounges have been designed with careful attention to detail, with elegant architectural features, stylish interior spaces, timber trellis work and bespoke furniture from Italy. 
Emirates continually invests to upgrade and refresh its lounge experience. In addition to the immersive theatre experience, the Emirates Business Class lounge in Concourse B offers a full range of gourmet cuisine with a recently redesigned menu – prepared on-site by Emirates Chefs – a complimentary full bar service, shower facilities, a health spa, shoe shine service, cell phone charging stations, a wine cellar and a dedicated children’s play areas with arcade quality games. 
The newly refurbished lounge also features three distinct concept areas: a barista experience in partnership with Costa Coffee; a Health hub with Voss water featuring healthier food and beverage options; and an exclusive first-of-its-kind Moët & Chandon champagne lounge serving four distinct cuvées with food parings designed for Emirates, all of which are complimentary for guests. 
Emirates has the largest network of airport lounges worldwide. In addition to the seven in Dubai, there are 34 other dedicated Emirates Lounges in major airports across the globe. - Advertisement -