Botswana president Ian Khama to step down on Saturday; after a national farewell tour March 29, 2018 - Advertisement - 
President Ian Khama of Botswana this week wrapped up a national “farewell tour” before he stands down on Saturday. 
Khama visited all of Botswana’s 57 constituencies since December, bidding a long goodbye to a population of just 2.2 million after serving the constitutional maximum of 10 years in office. - Advertisement - 
He will be succeeded by Vice-President Mokgweetsi Masisi, a full 18 months before elections. 
Khama’s two terms in power have been defined by his country’s rapid development thanks to lucrative diamond and beef exports and by a reputation for good governance. 
He has also become renowned for straight talking – breaking with diplomatic convention to criticise leaders including US President Donald Trump and then-president Robert Mugabe in neighbouring Zimbabwe. 
On Tuesday, his tour finished in his ancestral village of Serowe in the east of the country, with a day of songs, poems, gifts, ululation and pleading for him to remain in office. 
Khama was showered with gifts including a 4×4 truck, 143 cows, hundreds of chickens, over 415,000 pula ($44,000), and a fully-equipped luxury caravan that his brother Tshekedi dubbed a “mobile state house”. 
But his own record in office has not been without its critics, who accuse him of an autocratic leadership style. 
Often seen as one of Africa’s success stories, Botswana has recorded rising unemployment since 2009 as diamond prices fell. 
The drop in revenue forced Khama to halt many planned investments in recent years. “Internationally, he positioned himself as a moral leader in the region, stepping down as an example of a leader who respects laws and traditions — and inviting both President Kabila and Mugabe to respect democracy and the rule of law,” Matteo Vidiri, a BMI Research analyst, told AFP. 
“(But) a slowing economy and increasing public discontent has damaged the narrative of Botswana’s ‘special character’, of a country being able to escape the ‘resource curse’.” 
The opposition blames Khama for creating a society of “beggars”. 
Khama, who is unmarried, was born in Britain as his father married white British woman Ruth Williams — a mixed-race partnership that caused widespread shock in Africa and Britain.Incoming president Masisi, 55, will be inaugurated on Sunday. 
Source: AFP