Tuesday March 20 2018 Brain drain to blame for lack of jobs - Muyingo Lauded. Dr Muyingo shares a light moment with one of the graduands at Uganda Martyrs University Nkozi last Friday. PHOTO BY SADAT MBOGO In Summary Dr Muyingo commended the Catholic Church for supporting the government in providing education and health services through setting up of schools, universities, hospitals and other projects in different parts of the country. Advertisement By SADAT MBOGO 
State minister for Higher Education John Chrysostom Muyingo has blamed the rising unemployment levels in the country on brain drain.The minister observed that there are increasing numbers of highly qualified people leaving the country for greener pastures.Dr Muyingo made the remarks while presiding over the 23rd graduation ceremony of Uganda Martyrs University at their main campus in Nkozi, Mpigi District. According to the minister, many young skilled people that would help in the creation of more jobs are instead leaving for employment outside Uganda.He cautioned graduates against being lured by the many labour exporting companies. “Stop yearning for employment opportunities abroad. Many of our young and skilled people have run out of the country in the guise of looking for better paying jobs with some not even knowing where they are being taken and the specific jobs they are going to do,” he noted. 
“We have lost lives, we have lost brilliant boys and girls who would help in developing our villages through creating own jobs and widen the local employment opportunities. Use the little money you would spend on processing travel documents, air tickets and the like to establish small enterprises,” he advised.Dr Muyingo commended the Catholic Church for supporting the government in providing education and health services through setting up of schools, universities, hospitals and other projects in different parts of the country. 
He also challenged private institutions of higher learning to prioritise skills development in the training curriculum in areas of agriculture, architecture, health sciences, and engineering, among others.He also launched a book titled “The Ecological Organic Agriculture Book”, which was produced by Associate Professor Julius Mwine as an initiative to sensitise the public how to use animated pictures to protect the environment.A total of 802 students graduated in different academic disciplines. 
editorial@ug.nationmedia.com