Saturday March 31 2018 Players that could provide spark Desabre craves for in Cranes fold Coach Desabre (C) with Cranes players ahead of a recent friendly game. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary Soccer. The new coach is intent on changing the attitude of Ugandan players and systems used to get positive results. Advertisement By ELVIS SENONO 
KCCA manager Mike Mutebi made his way in the direction of the dressing rooms at the end of Cranes’ dour goalless draw with Malawi in an international friendly at Mandela National Stadium on Tuesday evening.Moments earlier Cranes coach Sebastien Desabre had also emerged from the same route to admit in the post-match press conference that his team needs a ‘link to connect between the defence and the strikers’.Desabre is searching for creative midfielders having also expressed satisfaction with the work of his defensive midfielders Hassan Wasswa and Taddeo Lwanga.Against Malawi, Joseph Ochaya and Milton Karisa were asked to provide that link, a task they failed to execute with Abraham Ndugwa, Kizito Luwagga only faring slightly better when they came on. Desabre later talked of the options that include Farouk Miya, Khalid Aucho and Moses Oloya that were unavailable for this double header. We unplug some players that could have answers to the Frenchman’s riddle. Jackson Nunda In Mutebi’s possession is a player capable of illuminating a game as dull as Desabre witnessed on Tuesday. Singled out by Nigerian great Nwankwo Kanu on his visit in 2016, the lanky playmaker has since spent most of his time at the masseuse’s table rather than field. But in one of his rare moments this season, the left-footed Nunda scored arguably the goal of the season with a solo effort against Onduparaka. “He does things that people who pay want to watch,” Mutebi said at the time. Michael Azira An experienced player who was not suited to Micho Sredojevic’s approach and not given enough playing time but who can thrive under the current set up. With a good passing range, the US-based Azira can operate as a deep lying playmaker alongside another an anchorman in Wasswa’s mould. 
Allan Kateregga Another left-footed Lugogo product who would by now be well known to Desabre had he stayed behind to feature at the Chan tournament. He opted for a move to South Africa with Cape Town City where he has found playing time hard to come by.His ability to easily beat opponents and good work ethic would pose a serious threat to Ochaya’s presence in the team. Yasser Mugerwa At times it felt as if the Ethiopia-based Fasil Kenema midfielder was being forced onto previous Cranes coach Micho Sredojevic, who was known not to favour an adventurous approach. It therefore remains strange that the former URA and Orlando Pirates man was not considered for the last two friendlies.Unlike the available central midfielders, his first instinct is often to take the team forward, a basic requirement that was missing in the two games against Malawi amd Sao Tome and Principe. Abdu Lumala Few have heard of the youngster who left the country six years ago to try out professional football after rising through the ranks under the guide of veteran coach Eddie Butindo and Friends of Football (Fof), Sparta 09 and KJT.Having been abandoned by his parents as an infant, Lumala, also often referred to as Charles Ssali, depending on the various people that raised him in Bakuli, has risen through the ranks in Sweden to feature for top sides such as Mjallby AIF, and Helsingborgs. The 21-year-old is currently on loan from IFK Värnamo on loan from Kalmar FF and can play in a number of forward positions considering his dribbling ability, trickery and pace. Keziron Kizito Much was expected of another Fof product and former Vipers midfielder when he broke through at the Kitende-based side. He however appeared disillusioned after the departure of partner-in-crime Miya.He then transferred to Kenyan side AFC Leopards briefly before a move to India where he has rubbed shoulders with the likes of Dimitar Berbatov and Wes Brown.The new environment seemed to bring the best out of him. His dynamism and eye for the final pass makes him ideal for Desabre’s approach. 
Ones for the future Desabre has already sprung a surprise after selecting domestic league players in Lwanga and Abraham Ndugwa. The quartet of Shafik Kagimu, Albert Mugisa, Allan Okello, Frank Tumwesigye will be ones to watch out for as well. advertisement