Key Magara murder suspect wanted in S.Africa for car theft Patrick 'Pato' Agaba has been reportedly been handed over. COURTESY PHOTO Advertisement By Tom Malaba 
Kampala. 
The man accused of planning the kidnap and murder of Susan Magara is reportedly part of a larger racket of cross border hardcore criminals who steal high performance vehicles from South Africa and sell them in Uganda. The suspect, Mr Patrick Agaba, popularly known as Pato, is also wanted in South Africa for theft of three vehicles that were airlifted to Entebbe airport and cleared into the country last December. Security sources in South Africa told Daily Monitor that they had received a request from Interpol South Africa to trace the three cars, among which is a Mercedes Benz, a Posche and a Range Rover. “Pato is part of a big racket of criminals involved in theft of cars out of South Africa,” the source revealed, adding that his accomplices were being sought. The source in South Africa revealed that Mr Agaba is expected back in Randburg Regional Court in Johannesburg on April 3 for the hearing of a case in which the Ugandan government wants him extradited to Kampala to face charges of kidnap and murder of Magara, a former administrator at her father’s Bwendero Farm. 
Clues Agaba, who calls himself the most recognised Mutoro, has been living a luxurious lifestyle in Kampala and South Africa that security thinks is a result of criminal activity. Sources in South Africa said Interpol Uganda has already impounded one of the three cars, a Silver Grey metallic Benz. The Benz V8 Biturbo, worth Shs500m, that had been sold to one Abubaker Sengooba, is parked at Interpol offices in Kololo, Kampala.“We are also looking for the Posche and the Range Rover. Whoever has them let him surrender it to Interpol or else we will get him,” the source added. The director Interpol, Mr Fred Yiga, confirmed they had impounded the Benz. “We are looking for a white Range Rover chassis No. SAL GA 2EE1EA137065 and Engine No. 13062416414508PS and a Silver Porsche Cayenne Chassis WP1ZZZ92Z0LA70127, Engine No. M4802GVD00675. Whoever has them should know they are stolen and should surrender them to Interpol,” Mr Yiga said. advertisement