Hippos hunt for early South Sudan success Hippos going through their paces at Lugogo on Thursday. PHOTO BY EDDIE CHICCO In Summary Soccer. The last meeting of any kind between the two countries, a group game at the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup yielded a winning 5-1 scoreline and Hippos will go for the same. Advertisement By ELVIS SENONO 
KAMPALA. 
The last time a team from South Sudan visited Uganda, the hosts were 5-1 comfortable winners at the StarTimes Stadium in Lugogo.The last meeting of any kind between the two countries, a group game at the 2017 Cecafa Senior Challenge Cup also yielded a similar score line.The national Under-20 team, Hippos, will also pursue a similar result this afternoon in the first round of the 2019 Africa U-20 Cup of Nations Qualifiers first leg match against the same opponents at the similar Startimes Stadium.“We have good history over South Sudan,” said winger Julius Poloto.“That history gives us some confidence going into the tie. But we are also aware the game is also won by what you do on the pitch not by history books.”The KCCA stalwart is expected to captain the side that also includes club-mate Allan Okello and Vipers’ Frank ‘Zaga’ Tumwesigye. 
Sharper in training The trio alongside Abubaker Kasule will form the midfield for the Mathias Lule-coached side. Upfront, Lule is expected to make a late call on whether to start the more accomplished duo of Steven Mukwala and Hamis Tibita ahead of Buddo SS striker Sadam Masereka, who has appeared sharper in training. The two legged tie against South Sudan is the start of a three-round qualification process that will end with seven countries joining Niger for the final showpiece tournament next year.Cameroon awaits in the second round with the winner playing either Tanzania, DR Congo or Mali for a place in the finals tournament due February 2019. 
Hippos Probable XI Saidi Keni (goalkeeper), Paul Willa, Mustafa Kizza, Geoffrey Wasswa, Mustafa Mujuzi, Abubaker Kasule, Allan Okello, Frank Tumwesigye, Julius Poloto, Steven Mukwala, Sadam Masereka. Officials Coach: Matia Lule Assistant Coach: James Odoch Goalkeeping Coach: Sam Kawalya Team Manager: Sulait Makumbi 
TODAY AT STARTIMES STADIUM, LUGOGO First Round: 4PMUganda Hippos vs. South Sudan advertisement