Friday March 30 2018 Church slams govt on killings Church of Uganda Archbishop Stanley Ntagali (L) and Kampala Diocese Archbishop Cyprian Kizito Lwanga (R) address journalists at Pope Paul Memorial Centre recenty. PHOTO by STEPHEN WANDERA In Summary Justification. The prelates used their Easter messages to surge Ugandans to reject the growing culture of death. Advertisement By DERRICK WANDERA & Ephraim Kasozi 
Kampala. 
Both Catholic and Anglican archbishops have criticised government for failing to secure the lives of Ugandans in the wake of rampant kidnaps and killings across the country. The prelates used their Easter messages to scold government and urge Ugandans to reject the growing culture of death. While delivering his message at his office in Rubaga, Kampala, Archbishop Cyrian Kizito Lwanga of Kampala Archdiocese challenged government to strengthen the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) to stop the criminal gangs now on rampage. “Many people are being kidnapped and killed. These days, when you get out of your house, you are not sure whether you will come back alive or dead. The investigations department has failed to provide reports about these,” he said. The CID has been on the spot over failure to conclude investigations into multiple cases of murders across the country, including those of former police spokesperson Andrew Felix Kaweesi, several Muslim clerics, and women in urban areas around Kampala. There have also been widespread cases of house break-ins. The unsolved killings by the police lately forced the Chieftaincy of Military Intelligence (CMI) to swing into action to arrest the escalating insecurity.Archbishop Lwanga said the offenders must be brought to book regardless of their positions and status in society. “The gruesome killings and abductions that are happening against innocent children, women and men are appalling. We call upon government to act on this and bring the offenders, including government officials, to justice,” he said. Echoing his Catholic counterpart, Church of Uganda Archbishop Stanley Ntagali asked Ugandans to use the Easter season to renounce the growing culture of death and embrace the culture of life that Jesus offers through his death and resurrection.Archbishop Ntagali said the delayed solution to the killings constitutes actions contrary to Jesus’ teachings that promote life.“The increasing deaths and the seeming inability to do anything about them is part of our current culture of death. This is not the way of Jesus,” he said at Namirembe in Kampala. He also rebuked hospital workers for stealing drugs and lambasted officials seeking to legalise abortion. advertisement