Museveni: I have been working with FDC’s Beatrice Anywar quite sometime   
President Museveni has hailed Kitgum Woman Member of Parliament, famous Mama Mabira, as she is fondly called Beatrice Anywar for finally embracing the revolutionary message of the NRM after years of constantly bringing confusion among her people. 
The president described the 54 year old politician as a reasonable politician whom he had engaged for years but noted that in most of their there engagements, Hon. Anywar was always bothered about the development of her constituency unlike most opposition politicians who spend most of their time on politicking and peddling lies.   President made the remarks on Friday at Boma grounds in Kitgum Municipality where, at the invitation of the area MP Hon Anywar, he laid a foundation stone and commissioned the construction of Christ the King Parish Centenary Church in Kitgum. The President also laid a foundation stone for St. Janani Luwum Church and donated 560 iron sheets and pledged Ugx.120 million for roofing the church. 
Meanwhile the Kitgum district legislator- Beatrice Anywar vowed to work with the Movement for the development of Kitgum district and the country at large. Anywar, described by opposition as Uganda’s political slay queen, was staunch FDC member until 2016. Her troubles with FDC began during the nomination of 2016 presidential candidates when she chose to endorse Mr Amama Mbabazi of the Go Forward pressure group, instead of her party candidate Kizza Besigye. The trouble followed her to the municipality MP race when FDC dumped her as the party flag bearer. 
President Museveni urged the National Resistance Movement cadres to gracefully welcome members of the opposition political parties that are crossing to the Movement.He said this is the only way to strengthen the Party through increasing their support and making it popular. Shunning or treating with contempt those who want to join the Party, he said, would be a disservice by Movement cadres to NRM as a mass Party. 
Nodding disease In the case of nodding disease, the president said studies have shown that the syndrome is associated with river blindness. That it is transmitted by the black fly which operates like the female anophelese mosquito in relation to malaria. 
‘‘Government will therefore carry out a mass treatment twice a year in parts of Northern Uganda in the month of April and October and we shall hopefully have more districts declared free of nodding disease. The success of the treatment will entirely depend on community’s compliance as it must be administered at the same time.’’ He said. - Advertisement -