Advertisement By David Serumaga 
Last year, many parts of the country experienced severe drought that affected human and livestock as well as crops. Karamoja sub-region and Nakasongola District, among other areas, had no pasture and water for their animals leading to their death. 
We witnessed animal price reduction due to excessive high temperature that left all the grassland or pastures and water sources for irrigation, animal and home use dry. 
In some districts, the prolonged drought resulted in shortage of food for residents and animals. This meant a reduction in people’s income. In response, the Ministry of Disaster Preparedness and Refugees in partnership with the United Nations, distributed relief food to the affected communities. 
Now that the rains have come, farmers are busy cultivating their land. As such, we expect to have food surplus on the market. Animals and crops are already looking good because the rain has given rise to good pasture and water for them to drink. 
Consequently, on the basis of increase in output and quality of crops and animals, farmers’ incomes will increase Yet while farmers are beginning to smile, those who are encroaching on wetlands and forests are still continuing with the vice. This means that a lot still needs to escape the dire effects of the next drought. 
The Ministry of Agriculture, has to wake up and introduce measures to minimise the effect of drought in future. This can be done when the ministry works hand in hand with our media houses to sensitise and inform citizens about on how to harvest water this rainy season. 
Since one of the media roles is to inform and educate the public, that people and animal can remain health healthy even during dry season. If people venture into water harvesting and later use the harvested water for irrigation purposes, there will be food security. This will improve the quantity and quality of crops harvested which will increase the demand for our agricultural products on both the local and international market. 
There is no doubt that Uganda will regain its food basket title if such ideas are put into practice this rainy season when water is still in plenty. This implies that even diseases that come as a result of malnutrition hence poor immunity and other related diseases will be curbed. When the quality and quantity of our agricultural products are high, Uganda’s foreign exchange earnings will also go up. 
David Serumaga.