Police arrest brothers over kidnapping 4-year-old girl In Summary Police said the duo will be arraigned in court next week after investigations are complete. Last week police released statistics showing that 16 people have been kidnapped in the last two months. Mr Atuhirwe said he had kidnapped the girl because Ms Kahunde had broken up with him and disappeared with the motorcycle they had bought on a loan. Advertisement By JOSEPH KATO 
KAMPALA. Police Flying Squad Unit (FSU) has arrested two brothers for allegedly kidnapping a four-year-old girl.FSU commander, Herbert Muhangi, said the brothers were arrested on Thursday over allegations of kidnapping Resty Kahunde, a daughter to Ms Beatrice Kahunde and Mr Samuel Mugenyi on March 22.Mr Muhangi said the girl was kidnapped by a boda-boda rider who hid her at his brother's home in Butumi village, Kiyuni Sub County in Mubende District. 
"This woman (Ms Kahunde) was referred to us by Kyenjojo police on March 24, two days after her daughter had been kidnapped. We tracked the phone calls and arrested the boda boda rider who led us to his brother’s home where he was hiding the child," Mr Muhangi said.Ms Kahunde said her daughter was living with her sister, Ms Annet Kalumba in Bujjuko, Mityana District. She said she got the news regarding her daughter's kidnap after her sister received information that the girl had not reached school on that day. 
"I was in Kyenjojo District when I was told about my girl's disappearance. It was at about 3pm. I later received a phone call from Yusuf Atuhirwe saying he was holding the girl because he wanted me to return the motorcycle we bought on loan," Ms Kahunde said. 
Mr Atuhirwe said he had kidnapped the girl because Ms Kahunde had broken up with him and disappeared with the motorcycle they had bought on a loan. He said the motorcycle was to be the source of income for clearing the Shs5 million loan they had acquired to buy it. "The loan was signed under my name and I had nowhere to get the money when she went with the motorcycle. I kidnapped the child so that she could return the motorcycle or accept to clear the remaining balance," Mr Atuhirwe says in a police statement. 
Ms Kahunde admitted that she took the motorcycle but she was planning to raise money and clear the loan balance. "He (Atuhirwe) was my boyfriend but we ended the relationship. I could not entertain his behaviors," she said.Mr Muhangi said Mr Atuhirwe was changing meeting venues every moment, an indication that he probably planned something terrible for Ms Kahunde and her daughter. "It was serious and we suspected his motives. He could tell her to meet him in Mubende, Kampala and Mityana. His change of meeting venues was suspicious but followed every step until we apprehended him," Mr Muhangi said. 
However, Mr Samuel Mwesige, who’s also being treated as a suspect told police that his young brother (Mr Atuhirwe) approached him with the child saying he produced her with another woman and wanted him to briefly stay with her as he figures out his next move. "He’s my young brother whom I never suspected of anything. I did not hesitate when he asked me to stay with the child he told me was his," Mr Mwesige said. 
Police said the duo will be arraigned in court next week after investigations are complete. Last week police released statistics showing that 16 people have been kidnapped in the last two months. Mr Muhangi warned parents against sending children to school, market or Church unescorted by an adult person. 
jkato@ug.nationmedia.com