Saturday March 31 2018 Tutors incompetent in Math, English, computer, says Ubteb Released. (Left to right, front row). The board chairman of Uganda Business and Technical Examination Institute (Ubteb), Prof Venansius Baryamureeba, State minister for Higher Education John Chrysostom Muyingo and Under Secretary in the Ministry of Education and Sports Aggrey Kibenge during the release of Ubteb exams in Ntinda on Thursday. PHOTO BY ABUBAKER LUBOWA In Summary Learning. Dr Chrysostom Muyingo has asked his ministry to retrain the tutors to be up to date. Advertisement By PATIENCE AHIMBISIBWE 
Incompetent tutors in technical and vocational institutions are responsible for the poor performance in key subjects such as mathematics, computer and English language. This was revealed by the authorities at Uganda Business and Technical Examinations Board (Ubteb) during the release of last year’s exam results on Thursday.Ubteb executive secretary, Mr Onesmus Oyesigye, said although more than half of the candidates who sat passed, the board still found the students with limited knowledge in Mathematics, computer and English language on account of inept tutors. 
The numbers A total of 22,398 candidates out of 30,180 who had registered appeared for the examinations with 74 per cent passing while 5,724 (26 per cent) will have to repeat some of their subjects to improve on their competencies in those subjects they scored below the pass mark before they are officially released into the world of work.“The teaching of such subjects in the newly revised curricula for Technical National Certificate programmes requires teaching staff who are competent in Advanced Mathematics, English and Autocad which is not the case with some instructors at institutions,” Mr Oyesigye noted.Those who passed were pursuing Business Diploma and Certificate programmes, Technical National Certificate programmes and Technical Advanced Craft programmes.Mr Oyesigye also noted that there is a mismatch in training, delivery and assessment because lecturers have not been retooled in the revised curriculum that is competence based assessment.The board chairperson, Prof Venansius Baryamureeba, said the board has grown its examination centres from 557 to 587.The State Minister for Higher Education, Dr Chrysostom Muyingo, who was the chief guest, warned that they should not accredit centres which don’t meet the minimum standards as the Ministry of Education will close them. Dr Muyingo was representing the Education Minister, Ms Janet Kataha Museveni.The minister directed Mr Aggrey Kibenge, the ministry’s Undersecretary to ensure the instructors are retooled to meet the demands of the new curriculum being implemented.“I wish to caution the board to ensure the standards are met while accrediting these institutions. We are not yet where we want to be. We need competent instructors. The ministry should take them for training because you can’t give what you don’t have,” Dr Muyingo said. 
Hands-on skills He urged the principals to partner with the private sector and ensure their students spend more time in industries and workshops practicing than learning theory.Female students dominated business courses compared to their male counterparts who were more into technical and vocational studies. For example, 159 girls did Business Certificate compared to 38 boys while Technical National Certificate attracted 2,566 male candidates against 295 females. advertisement