March 31, 2018 Police Spokesperson Emillian Kayima 
Ugandans will enjoy the Easter season without major crimes, if the increase in the number of police patrols in Kampala and upcountry urban centres is to go by. Last Monday, police spokesman, Emilian Kayima, said in a press release that the force would ensure security of Ugandans during the four-day festive season and thereafter, even as he advised the public to take responsibility of the safety of their own lives and property. “We promise to continue with the task of protecting all Ugandans throughout this season as we have done before,” Kayima said in a press release he circulated to the local media. Last night an investigation by Eagle Online established that police has increased its presence on streets of Kampala and other major towns in the country. Eagle On line’s upcountry correspondents in major towns like Mbarara, Mbale, Masaka, Jinja and Arua witnessed sustained police patrols on streets and well as in walkways behind city buildings. In Kampala city centre and suburbs, Eagle Online scouts could witness sustained patrols combining police pick-ups, motorcycles and officers on foot. Scores were arrested and bundled on pickups even though some suspects claimed they were on their way home. Many were picked near night clubs such along William Street and Wilson Road. Most of the suspects picked were males, the youth forming majority of the arrests. “I was going to club to have a beer. Why are you arresting me,” one man pleaded. The arrests on the streets did not go well with Kampala night sex workers who fled into nearby night clubs and lodge corridors. “Shamim, let us go inside, otherwise these police officers will arrest us,” a young lady who looked to be in her early twenties said as she pulled a colleague’s hand. In busy suburbs like Kabalagala, Kansanga, Makindye, Kisenyi, Kireka, Nakawa, Natete, Mengo, Nakulabye and old Kampala, scouts say they witnessed patrol movements, which they expect to continue throughout and after the festive season. The patrols were on until wee hours of the morning. Upcountry correspondents almost reported a similar pattern in police movements. They concentrated more in city centres where they are major businesses like banks and markets. The also patrolled streets hosting night clubs and bars-the attraction of most nigh dwellers. In Mbale town, our scouts say there was heavy presence of police officers around Clock Tower, Naboa Road and Cathedral Avenue as well as places like Namakwekwe and Namatala . Officers also made movements in corridors behind buildings. In Mbarara town our correspondent said major patrols were in the town centre, Rwebikona Market, Kakoba Lugazi and Ruharo. He says no significant arrests were made as would-be culprits seemed to have heeded to police warning. Post Views: 174