JUST IN: Man murders aunt over TV volume   Wednesday, Mar 21, 2018 | 799 views 
Munyaradzi Musiiwa, Midlands Correspondent 
A 34-year-old man from South Downs suburb in Gweru went berserk and allegedly fatally struck his aunt with an axe before stabbing her several times all over the body following a misunderstanding over television volume. 
The bizarre incident occurred on Tuesday afternoon when Chano Fernandos of 9 Cleverly Crescent South Downs allegedly killed his aunt Julie Davidets (53) whom he was staying with following a misunderstanding over volume of television. 
Acting Midlands Police Spokesperson, Assistant Inspector Ethel Mukwende confirmed the murder. 
“I can confirm that we have arrested a suspect in connection with murder. He is in police custody assisting with investigations. He will appear in court soon. We appeal to the public to desist from violence and always seek a third part or counselling whenever they have a misunderstanding,” she said. 
In an interview, Fernandos’ mother and the now deceased Julie’s sister, Ms Elizabeth Davidets (64) confirmed the murder adding the two had always been fighting with the latter always provoking the former threatening to evict him. 
Ms Davidets said on the fateful day, her son was watching TV in the lounge when Julie walked in and turned down the volume before changing the channel. 
She said Fernandos immediately left the room and went to his bedroom to rest but Julie started shouting and insulting him. 
“The two have always been fighting. My sister wanted my son arrested and he wanted to evict him. She was a violent person and she always assaults me whenever they have an altercation. On Tuesday , my son was in the lounge watching TV when my sister walked in from outside where she was working in the garden and lowered the volume of the television. She also changed the channel which my son was watching and she went back outside. 
Chano then left the lounge and went to his room. My sister then returned to the house and started shouting at Chano calling him a homosexual and was also swearing. This angered Chano and he took an axe and threatened to chop Julie that is when I intervened and refrained him. My sister then got out and threatened to report Chano to the police. After a while my neighbours came back shouting telling me that my son had killed my sister,” she said while in tears. 
A witness Mr Batsirai Mazarura said Fernandos struck her aunt with the axe and stabbed her several times with a knife before she fell to the ground. 
“The woman could have been saved but the ambulance arrived late. When I got to the scene she was still breathing,” he said. 
According to police documents in possession of Sunday News, the two have always been fighting and Chano had a court order barring him from verbally or physically abusing her aunt.