LATEST: Two qualify for Four Minute Mile   Wednesday, Mar 21, 2018 | 520 views 
Ngqwele Dube, Sports Correspondent 
TWO athletes qualified for the Coca Cola Four Minute Mile Challenge during trials that were held over the weekend at NUST Grounds. 
Blanket Mine’s Christopher Gondwe and Respect Chinosiya of Masvingo added themselves to the list of three who have already made it to the finals of the annual competition that is traditionally held at the ZITF Main Arena during the Trade Fair. 
Gondwe crossed the finish line first in a time of four minutes 23.44 seconds while Chinosiya completed the race in four minutes 29.89 seconds to marginally beat the qualifying time of four minutes 31 seconds. 
The first and second qualifiers were held at Bulawayo’s White City Stadium on 14 January and 24 February respectively and those saw Dumo Mkhwananzi of Sparrows, City Meats’ Xolani Nkiwane and Denford Mlilo of Sparrows book their final berths. 
Mkhwananzi qualified in a time of four minutes 28.00 seconds while the duo of Nkiwane and Mlilo crossed the finish line in four minutes 31 seconds. 
A qualifier that was held at Harare’s Morris Depot on 10 March produced no qualifier with all the athletes that took part failing to beat the qualifying time. 
Bulawayo Athletics Board chairman, Manuel Mpofu said they will hold more qualifiers as the date (28 April) for the finals approaches. 
He said they will hold semifinals at White City Stadium a day before the finals to pick the top 20 based on time. 
In last year’s final event, Zimbabwe Republic Police Fairbridge athlete, Trust Chidomaya came first in four minutes, 17.52 seconds followed by Willard Mutasa of Bulawayo Jumbos who clocked four minutes 18.56 seconds and Blessing Chidziva of ZRP finished third in four minutes, 19.38 seconds. 
Chidomaya, winner of the same race in 2015 walked away with $800, a medal, a miniature trophy and a shield. 
Mutasa pocketed $400 accompanied by a miniature trophy as well as a medal with $350 heading Chidziva’s way which also went with a small trophy and medal. >