LATEST: Upcoming swimmer breaks records   Tuesday, Mar 20, 2018 | 397 views 
Ngqwele Dube, Sports Correspondent 
UPCOMING junior swimmer, Tichatonga Makaya broke two records at the recently held Zimbabwe National Junior championships as he outlined his potential as a rising star. 
Makaya came first in record time in the 50m freestyle and 50m butterfly at the event that was held at Heritage Primary School Pool in Harare. 
Only three short course records were broken at the event with eight year old, Mbali Sibanda breaking the 25m backstroke record. 
Twelve year old, Makaya completed the 50m freestyle in 28.28 seconds to eclipse the 29.85 seconds that was set by Josh Covill in February last year. 
In the 50m butterfly, Makaya emerged first in a time of 30.71 seconds to make the new record with the previous record having stood at 31.86 and was set by a D Huang in November 2015. 
The Centenary pupil’s coach at Stingrays Swimming Academy, Ed Cyprianos said he was improved by the progress Makaya has made since he began swimming two years ago. 
“He is relatively new to the sport but has been making tremendous progress in the short space of time he began the sport. Makaya did not know how to swim two years ago but he has taken to the sport with ease and is outclassing his peers. 
“Next month he will be heading to South Africa to take part in the South African Level 3 national juniors and that will be a big test for him as we see how he will measure against competition from outside the country. I believe he has a bright future in the sport and could reach greater heights if he remains focused and disciplined,” he said. 
The Junior Championships were contested for by six provinces and despite Mashonaland coming first it was Matabeleland swimmers who broke the records. 
The opening ceremony of the event was graced by Olympic medalist, Kirsty Coventry, who was the Guest of Honour and she proved an inspiration to the young swimmers as she came dressed in national colours with a green blazer. >