No Comments ICT and Cyber Security minister Supa Mandiwanzira 
THE Postal and Telecommunications Regulatory Authority of Zimbabwe (Potraz) on Monday donated 10 state-of-the-art computers to Mutungagore High School in Makoni South. The school received 2 000 textbooks and 4 000 pens from NetOne and Telecel, respectively, while Zarnet – another State-owned enterprise – installed internet to enable the school to use the computers effectively. 
Speaking during the handover ceremony held at the school, Minister of Information Communication Technology and Cyber Security Supa Mandiwanzira said his ministry had responded to a call by Zanu-PF Manicaland Women’s League chairperson Cde Happy Nyakuedzwa to assist the school. 
By Herald Reporter 
Minister Mandiwanzira was represented by the acting permanent secretary in his ministry, Mr Cosmas Chigwamba. 
“My ministry has responded to the request by Cde Happy Nyakuedzwa to provide computers to Mutungagore High School in Makoni South constituency,” he said. 
“My ministry recently launched the ICT Policy that was graced by His Excellency, Cde ED Mnangagwa. “We have also established centres in major towns and we hope to cascade to district centres in the future. Education is, needless to say, one of the most important sectors for the socio-economic development of this country and the creation of computer labs at each school will enhance technological transfer. “I hope that the computers donated today will provide another opportunity for children to do research and have more knowledge and be part of the global village that the world has become.” 
Minister Mandiwanzira said learners can research information on different subject areas from various scholars and develop research skills. 
Cde Nyakuedzwa, who attended the ceremony, said she was concerned with the plight of schools in Makoni South, which she said were lagging behind in terms of technological advancement; hence her decision to approach Minister Mandiwanzira for assistance. 
Mutungagore High School head Mr Leonard Mutibu said his school was grateful for the donations, adding they would go a long way in assisting students with their studies. 
“We continue to call for the corporate world to partner us,” he said. 
This post first appeared in The Herald 