- March 22, 2018 Joyce Mujuru.PIC AARON UFUMELI 
The People’s Rainbow Coalition (PRC) led by Joice Mujuru has said if elected into power, the country will experience rapid economic boom which is based on its 10 pledges. PRC secretary-general Gorden Moyo said their government would establish a leaner Cabinet comprising technocrats. 
BY SILAS NKALA 
“PRC will establish a leaner, more productive, gender and age-sensitive Cabinet characterised by skills mix, experience, technical astuteness and national integration,” he said. 
Moyo said the PRC government would implement the devolution provisions of the Constitution, including swearing-in of all provincial MPs and setting up of the provincial councils all provinces of Zimbabwe. 
Moyo, who is also secretary-general of the People’s Democratic Party faction led by Lucia Matibenga, said repressive laws would have no place in the PRC government. “The PRC government will immediately repeal the Indigenisation and Empowerment Act, Public Order and Security Act and Access to Information and Protection of Privacy Act,” he said. 
The PRC SG said Zimbabwe cannot succeed without being part of international organisations such as the Commonwealth. 
He said the coalition would lure foreign and domestic investors setting the stage for economic recovery and job creation. 
“The PRC government will urgently take steps to rejoin the Commonwealth and seek to remove all impediments including Zimbabwe Democracy and Economic Recovery Act, 2001 (Zidera) that have been inhibiting Zimbabwe from enjoying investment, development finance and trade relations with the rest of the world,” Moyo, who is an expert in public policy and development, said. 
“The PRC government will ensure that every child will get free access to primary education. And long-term concessional loans will be extended to students in colleges, universities and tertiary institutions.” 
He said they will ensure food security through issuing bankable title deeds to A1 and A2 farmers and former commercial farmers will receive their compensation as per the provisions of the Constitution. 
“The PRC government will institute two judiciary inquiries on disappearances, one on missing persons such Itai Dzamara and Paul Chizuze and others, and another on the missing $15 billion and other illicit financial flows,” Moyo said. 
Dzamara was abducted by suspected State security agents on March 9, 2015 after staging lone protests calling on then President Robert Mugabe to step down at Africa Unity Square in the capital. 
Rights activist Chizuze disappeared in February 2012. 
Moyo said the PRC government would uproot corruption and conduct lifestyle audits on public officials at outset of the Mujuru-Administration. 
Zimbabwe is reeling from endemic corruption, which has crippled service delivery, parastatals and the corporate world with public officials and politicians being caught up in graft storms. Related posts: