- March 22, 2018 Christian Epoupa Ntouba 
HARARE football giants Caps United are keeping tabs on unsettled Dynamos striker Christian Ntouba in the hope that he will be cleared following protracted negotiations over his outstanding dues. 
BY TAWANDA TAFIRENYIKA 
Dynamos owe the Cameroonian $16 000, which includes part of his signing-on fees and unpaid allowances from last season. 
Although he has been training with the team, he refused to travel to Bulawayo where his team lost to Chicken Inn in the opening match of the season at the weekend. 
Caps United chief executive Cuthbert Chitima told Newsday Sport yesterday that they still had a slot for a striker and would be ready to sign any player if coach Lloyd Chitembwe approves it. 
“We don’t have any problem (in signing him). We are ready to sign the player as long as the coach approves it. We still have another slot,” Chitima said. 
Chitembwe, however, said he was not in a position to comment on a player who was contracted to another club. 
“I don’t think it’s proper for me to comment on a player who is contracted to another club. He (Christian) is a Dynamos player and I can’t comment anything on him,” Chitembwe said. 
The player’s manager Gilbert Sengwe has been trying to negotiate with Dynamos so that they pay him part of the money he is owed. 
Those negotiations have, however, not yielded results and yesterday, with the Glamour Boys who had initially said they had secured $6 500 offered to pay $5 000 instead, which was rejected by Sengwe, who accused the club of not being sincere. 
The two parties had agreed that the player would be paid part of the money before the start of the season. However, that did not happen with Dynamos claiming their coffers are dry. 
Sengwe said the only option left now was to engage Dynamos so that they clear the player to allow him to move on with his life. 
“I think there is no progress and the only option left is to engage them so that they clear the player. Look, he is a family man and they (Dynamos) have been failing to even propose a payment plan. We want the way forward for the player so that he moves on,” Sengwe said. 
Weekend fixtures 
Saturday: Mutare City v Chapungu 1pm (NSS), Black Rhinos v ZPC Kariba (NSS), Harare City v Bulawayo City (Rufaro), FC Platinum v Yadah (Mandava), Nichrut v Chicken Inn (Ascot). 
Sunday: Herentals v Highlanders (NSS), Triangle v Ngezi (Gibbo), Dynamos v Shabanie (Rufaro), Bulawayo Chiefs v Caps United (Luveve). All matches kick off at 3pm unless stated. Related posts: