• 22 March 2018 2:18PM • 
(Paperback) 175 pages. 
The Zimbabwean story has never been told as near-exhaustively — touching on the nation’s colonial experiences, through the liberation struggle into independence from white settler rule to the post-colonial challenges, dilemmas and disillusionment — by any indigenous writer better than what Nhamo Anthony Mhiripiri has done in his latest offering of short stories. 
as they are closely knit by the thread of violence and the struggle for freedom — both individual and collective. 
’ High School — Patrick “Patu” Machakata — who was such a marvel to work with. 
“Ode to a Grecian Urn”, “Ode to a Nightingale”, “Ode on Indolence” and “Ode to Melancholy” among several others no student seemed to enjoy. 
— a known hoodlum in the community. 
— their hotel room for quite some time until Elista falls pregnant. 
’ prescriptions — administered through Sisi Tsitsi. 
g symbolically in pursuit of freedom. 
When she finally got up and set her dress right Frankie was a 100 metres away, speeding blindly . . . Frankie reached the street-corner, a dangerous junction. 
A white Peugeot 504 abruptly turned from nowhere. There was a horrid, ugly thud of tender flesh hitting against hard metal and the desperate screech of braking tyres.” (p26) 
Gun-truths” has Sihle who gets killed as she contests the curfew, a restriction that evidently curtails people’s freedoms of movement. 
— both physical and emotional — run through the majority of the stories in the collection. 
— which is also mentioned — and Daddy’s death in Muttering Changes are some of the most extreme cases that we see in the collection. 
’s environment is heavily intolerant while he is determined to have his freedom. 
I am free to belong where I want or to say what I want.” (p117) 
” (p118) 
One of the worst in terms of emotional draw and betrayal is the title story, Temple of Rights in which rape, abuse and wealth are placed against the other. Tecla has been raped by Togwe but justice does not see the light of day because he is rich and can but freedom or more precisely, non-prosecution. 
The stench and dirt at the police station is symbolic of the prevailing injustice and betrayal as the police officers openly turn the victim an accused person and Auntie Julie claims she will talk to rapist Togwe because she has been handed an envelope with money. 
All this is presided by the State President who . . watched coldly over everything from the peeling dirty grey wall where it hung seemingly half alive, staring inscrutably. One could say his stiff pose was a sign of indifference, yet it could possibly be read as the detachment of one who soars high above the base, one who was now so remote that he could not be associated with the ordinary and commonplace . . .” (p134) 
Temple of Rights is a must-read collection of stories that tell the Zimbabwean story in a unique way and must be a part of every scholars bookshelf. 
Nhamo Anthony Mhiripiri was born in Harare and grew up in the capital and in Chitungwiza. 
He attended Nyandoro Primary School in Highfield, St Ignatius in Chishawasha and Murewa High School before enrolling with the University of Zimbabwe for a degree in English and History. 
He proceeded to do a Post Graduate Diploma and MA in Media and Communication Studies before doing his doctoral and post-doctoral studies in Media and Cultural Studies with the University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. 
Mhiripiri is not new to fiction writing as he has several short stories in No More Plastic Balls: New Voices in the 
His other short stories are in A Roof to Repair and Dreams, Miracles and Jazz: New Adventures in African Writing (eds. Henon Habila and Kadija Sesay). 
Currently, Mhiripiri is an Associate Professor in Media and Society Studies at the Midlands State University.