Zim's first bar village takes shape Lifestyle Writer • 22 March 2018 10:29AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Zimbabwe's own bar village concept is beginning to take shape in downtown Harare where Red Cafe is set to open its doors to the public this Friday. 
With two popular night clubs — Private Lounge and Holly’s Hotel — already operational along Harare Street, Red Café is joining the party, hence making the street a club’s haven. 
Just like Cape Town’s Long Street or Bourbon Street in New Orleans, US where particular streets are known to only house bars, restaurants and night clubs, the same concept is fast developing along Harare Street courtesy of Devine Assignments. 
Harare Street is set to become the hub of Harare’s entertainment, offering everything that any fun lover would want. 
Nestled on a street named after Zimbabwe’s capital city, Harare, Red Café is a five-star leisure centre in downtown Harare offering everything from breakfast to dinner and all sorts of beverages. 
Unlike other clubs nearby, Red Café offers a tranquil space for business people to meet, network and transact. 
The joint has WiFi and other accessories that allow the modern businesspeople, artists and their managers included, to operate without the hassle. 
Red Café manager Johannes Chipoyera said although he is new to the Devine Assignments family, he understands their vision and will pull out all the stops to ensure that the dream is achieved. 
“Red Café, the newest addition to the family here in Harare and on this street, opens this Friday and those that will be lucky to attend the grand opening are in for a treat. 
“It is going to be a red carpet affair with great hosts outside and inside. Our talented chef will prepare specialised menus that are found only at our place. 
“As for the beverages, everything will be on offer and we will serve breakfast. 
“Special cocktails will add to the usual juices, soft drinks, sparkling beverages and all kinds of beers,” said Chipoyera. 
On the opening day, Gary Tight will serenade guests as they sample what the place has to offer while top Harare DJs will get fun lovers into the party mood later on. 
“We have put together a tight entertainment programme that allows people to settle in, get a feel of the place, sample what we have to offer and ask questions about what they may not understand before finally putting on their dancing shoes for an epic Friday night,” said Chipoyera. 
Chipoyera added that from Monday to Thursday, Red Café will be mostly a restaurant that also serves alcohol and plays soft music at a very low volume. 
However, every Friday and Saturday the place becomes a fully-fledged nightclub after 9pm. 
He says Devine Assignments are thinking of adding more places on the street that offer different kinds of entertainment, for instance, live music. 
“Soon we will be adding a place that also caters for live music lovers. People in Zimbabwe love live music but sometimes the facilities chase certain people away, we want to change all that,” said Chipoyera.