It's make-or-break as Zim meet UAE Godknows Matarutse • 22 March 2018 10:19AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Heath Streak's men face the United Arab Emirates at Harare Sports Club today in their last Super Six ICC Cricket World Cup Qualifier fully aware that their destiny is firmly in their own hands for a place at next year's ICC Cricket World Cup. 
A victory for the hosts guarantees them a place at next year’s ICC Cricket World Cup scheduled for England and Wales while a defeat could see Zimbabwe potentially crashing out of the tournament should Afghanistan beat Ireland in their final match tomorrow. 
Yesterday, rain came to the rescue of the West Indies as they sealed their place at the ICC Cricket World Cup 2019 after defeating Scotland by five runs on the Duckworth-Lewis-Stern Method in a Super Six fixture. 
The victory by five runs meant the Windies finished the Super Six with eight points and not only qualified for the World Cup, but also qualified for the March 25 final where they will meet the other qualifier. 
Zimbabwe is also praying rains will not affect today’s match after it rained on a 20 percent forecast yesterday. 
By last night there was a forecast of 40 percent chances of rain today raising chances of rains interrupting play which might see the two teams (Zimbabwe and United Arab Emirates) sharing spoils. 
But while Zimbabwe are clear favourites going into today’s match as they are facing a side that is at the basement of the Super Six log standings without a point, team captain Graeme Cremer was quick to warn his charges against complacency. 
“In the eyes of many it appears an easy game but I think as players we need to approach it with the right attitude. There is really no room for complacency but to treat the match the same way that we have been doing in other matches,” Cremer told the Daily News. 
“We have had our meeting this morning (yesterday) and we emphasised on the need to stay focused on the task at hand. I don’t think we are under any pressure because we know what we need to do. We know we should win for us to qualify.” 
Zimbabwe will once again look to former captain Brendan Taylor and Sikandar Raza to continue with the same impact as they have been doing throughout this tournament. 
Taylor became the first Zimbabwean to score 10 ODI hundreds as Zimbabwe reached 289, but his efforts were in vain as fifties from Evin Lewis, Shai Hope and Marlon Samuels ensured a four-wicket win for the West Indies. 
Cremer, however, hopes all the guys will come to the party today while urging fans to again come in their numbers and rally behind the team. 
“We have done well in all departments in our matches thus far and we just need to continue playing good cricket. 
“It’s just a matter of continuing with our form because we have been good really,” he said. 
He continued: “Our fans have been special and the turnout has been awesome. I hope we will have the same attendance tomorrow.” 
On the other hand, Afghanistan and Ireland are also lying in wait, ready to pounce on any slip-up to sneak into second place after both teams moved to four points, courtesy of wins in their last matches against United Arab Emirates and Scotland respectively. 
The two teams have a potentially exciting date tomorrow at Harare Sports Club.