• 22 March 2018 9:51AM • 
- Timber companies here have a new problem to deal with — menacing troops of baboons — which have raised fresh fears of affecting the production of pine trees. A decade ago, the primates severely affected estates in the Eastern Highlands. 
Baboon damage to plantations has been on the increase over the last 10 years. This has resulted in high tree mortality and significantly reduced yield per hectare. 
Several control methods to reduce the damage are currently under trial at both company and industry level in Zimbabwe,” said Border Timbers Borders, which is participating in baboon control research with other companies in the southern African region. 
The extent of baboon damage in Zimbabwe, expressed as the total percentage of area damaged by baboons as a function of the total area planted to pine for the period 2000-2004 has escalated from 10.8 to 13.3 percent despite harvesting activities removing damaged trees,” said the Timber Producers’ Federation (TPF). 
’s biggest stakeholder, Allied Timbers, in a report detailing their struggle with settlers also acknowledges the significance of the baboon problem. 
We also have the issue of baboons which is affecting the remaining stock . . . this is natural and we can deal with it,” it said. 
ghly adaptable primates’ predators such as pythons, leopards, crowned eagles and crocodiles to flee their natural habitat after illegal settlements in the plantation forests. 
“an alarming increase in damage to commercial timber plantations by baboons”. 
’s most-prized cash crop — tobacco. 
bacco fields in Hurungwe as they run out of food due to land clearing for farming and forest razing to cure the golden leaf. 
Fruit trees have been cut down destroying baboons’ food sources. They are now eating tobacco which was previously unheard of. 
This is a message from our ancestral spirits that our custodianship of the environment has not been properly handled. Farmers are having to watch their tobacco fields more than anything else,” Chief Chundu told the Eastern News last year. 
- The Hospitality Association of Zimbabwe (Haz) has joined a growing list of businesspeople calling on the government to build an international airport to shore up tourism and general business in Manicaland Province. 
Visitors increasingly want to explore more than just one country. The multi-destination approach is now the dominant trend. 
Eastern Highlands will benefit immensely if we integrate with Mozambique. A traveller can enjoy the beach in Beira and come to experience a different tourism. This is the main reason we have been talking of the need for an airport,” Chinwada said. 
t tourism product or route. 
Mozambique is fairly big but you can land all across the country yet a region like the Eastern Highlands and its world-class tourist attractions, is virtually not accessible by air. 
Time is a major factor in international travel and without an airport you are basically condemned to only serve a local market. An airport will make the product accessible and available,” Chinwada said. 
- Lodge owners in Chimanimani have registered their displeasure with local council for charging them steep licensing fees which they claim are “anti-tourism” and cause illegal operations. 
’s $800 levy is oblivious to the challenges the sector has been experiencing which include low tourist arrivals and costly refurbishments. 
We tried everything to engage the council over the 2018 budget which was done without proper consultations with residents… 
It’s all one way ‘correspondence’ of course. Not once have I ever received an acknowledgement,” High said. 
’ licences of $115 per year instead just to get by. 
Our policies should speak to each other. There should not be any contradictions . . . I would like to encourage the hospitality sector to engage council and ask for a reconsideration,” Seenza said. 
Some tourists would just stay for free because they would not have any cash and are unable to use their Visa cards to make transaction with us whether they are still here or when they leave,” said Chimanimani Hotel general manager John Garawiro, who is also CTA chairperson.