Langalakhe Mabena YOU can’t keep a good man down! 
Military Touch Movement’s(MTM) controversial musician Andy Muridzo is proving to be a naturally talented gem and his collaboration with DJ Stavo on the song Champions is testimony. 
The song has at least 40 000 views on YouTube. 
After being sidelined at the MTM stable by Chief Executive Officer Mukudzeyi Mukombe otherwise known as Jah Prayzah in the music scene, Andy became traumatised with the bad treatment he was receiving from his boss. 
About a fortnight ago, Andy declared that he wanted out of MTM which he referred to as a “maximum prison” because of the ill-treatment. 
When Andy signed a five-year contract last year he hoped that MTM would produce, market and distribute his work as stated in his contract. The stable was also going to cater for any international collaboration of Andy’s choice but that has never been done almost a year down the line. 
As house producer DJ Stavo is well known for top successful collaborations both local and internationally, Stavo considered working with the troubled Andy Muridzo on the Champions song which is a fusion of Afro-soul, tradition and RnB. 
Andy connects flawlessly on the instrumental singing in English —something new from him as he sings in deep Shona in most of his projects, perhaps changing his style was a way of proving he’s talented. 
“Music is natural to me and I am flexible in doing anything at any given time, I wanted to make the song have an international appeal and prove I can go head to head with international artistes and I thank DJ Stavo for giving me such a great platform where I could express myself,” said Muridzo. 
The collaboration has put Jah Prayzah on the spotlight such that Andy’s fans are advocating for him to be given international collaborations, something which is part of his contract with MTM. 
One fan, Henry Mufandaramba, commented on YouTube: “If Jah Prayzah really has Andy Muridzo at heart, it’s time he pairs him on collaborations with international artistes, he is the definition of talent.” 
Everyone has heard Andy’s cries and Jah Prayzah has been exposed and taken on by his employee courtesy of the Champions song, it’s now up to the CEO to promote the talented lad as he fits well on the international market. 
Andy deserves a chance.