Posted in: Football , Side-Slide , Sport 
Fungai Muderere YOUNG and talented Highlanders midfielder Patrick Ben Musaka might be thrown into the deep end on Sunday when the Bulawayo giants take on Premier Soccer League debutants Herentals amid revelations that the player had received his International Transfer Certificate (ITC). 
Musaka,a former Zimbabwe Under-20 captain who won the hearts of many Bosso followers during the pre-season period courtesy of his ball artistry and wizardry in the middle of the park, was with South Africa’s National First Division side Black Leopards. 
The 20-year-old is a defensive midfielder and he returned to Zimbabwe after he failed to secure a visa to attend trials in Slovakia last year. 
“We missed his services when we played against Black Rhinos. He is a very key member of the team. He was not in the team (last Sunday) because of his International Transfer Certificate. Some of the things are beyond our control. 
The clearance arrived slightly late and he is going to be included in the team that will play against Herentals,” said Bosso’s technical manager Madinda Ndlovu. 
During the time that he was waiting for his visa to Slovakia, Musaka trained with South Africa’s Ajax Cape Town. The Urban Warriors had already signed a pre-contract with another Zimbabwean, Gerald Takwara and the remaining slots for foreigners were for a winger as well as striker so he only fine tuned with them. 
At Highlanders, Musaka is part of a largely youthful squad with an age range between 21 and 23 years. Ndlovu ignored calls from fans who wanted him to pounce on players who had been with How Mine when the team folded. 
Fans felt roping in former Bosso midfielder, Milton Ncube and 2014 golden boot winner, Kuda Musharu would have added depth to the squad and enable them to challenge for honours this year. 
Last year’s goalkeeping personnel was kept intact while changes were made to the defence with the introduction of McClive Phiri and elevations of juniors Ashford Faira, Andrew Mbeba and Vincent Moyo. In midfield, Musaka joins nimble footed Nigel Makumbe, who is on a season’s loan from FC Platinum, Munyaradzi Chitambwe, Brian Banda and Adrian Silla. 
Chitambwe, a Bantu player last year, is an attacking midfielder who is 20 years old. He was a regular for Bantu Rovers last season. Ndlovu sounded excited about Makumbe, who he described as a youngster brought up from a school of football, Aces Academy in Harare. The 21-year-old Makumbe, an attacking midfielder who also plays on the wing was at FC Platinum in 2017. 
Meanwhile, Bulawayo City public relations officer Thandiwe Moyo told B-Metro Sport that their veteran goalkeeper Takudzwa Ndoro’s ITC was still being processed. Ndoro, a twin brother to Zimbabwe international Tendai, joined Bulawayo City early this year from Botswana’s Gilport Lions “His (Takudzwa) ITC is still being processed. It’s almost being finalised. If he does happen to get it before our game against Harare City, nothing will hold him back to start doing duty for us,” said Moyo.