Vendetta Mtunzi/Siphathisiwe Tshuma SOMETHING rotten in the state of Denmark. 
A can of worms that sucks in Vehicle Inspection Department (VID) in a clandestine way of issuing vehicle fitness certificates has been opened. 
A bus plying the Bulawayo-Nkayi route, Gemsboke, is operating without relevant papers in addition to being driven by an unlicensed driver who doubles up as the mechanic. Joseph Makani and Ndende the mechanic 
After receiving complaints from concerned passengers who use the bus and fearing their lives were in danger, B-Metro went undercover to get to the bottom of the allegations. 
The first port of call was tracking the bus that was already in transit near the Highlanders Football Club’s clubhouse where the bus crew was picking up a passenger as an unlicensed driver, a Mr Ndende was behind the steering. 
“I don’t have a driver’s licence and I have been driving this bus for the past four months. I am also its mechanic,” Ndende unwittingly told B-Metro when approached while his passenger got into the bus. 
At the time one of the B-Metro reporters had already boarded the bus which is dilapidated. The bus looked old and dirty inside, the driver’s compartment looked like it would tear away from the bus. 
According to a source close to the bus company who spoke to B-Metro on condition of anonymity, the bus was hardly serviced and sometime last week its steering wheel components disengaged, as the bus veered and faced the opposite direction. 
“Luckily it locked before hitting people near St Patrick’s (Church) on Luveve Road. At the time it was carrying passengers to Nkayi,” the source said. 
Joseph Makani, the bus manager failed to produce the bus’s relevant papers such as its registration book and route permit. However, he produced a fitness certificate issued in Bulawayo by Shelton Muzori, an official at Bulawayo’s VID. 
Muzori told B-Metro that he gave the bus a legitimate fitness certificate as he was the one who took it for a road test. 
“I am the one who issued the certificate of fitness. I drove it myself,” he said. 
Interestingly, after further investigations by B-Metro at the Central Vehicle Registry (CVR), it was established that the bus with registration ABZ5903 was a Toyota Costa beige in colour, whereas the bus in question is an AVM — blue in colour. The bus owner, Botswana-based Mthulisi Msipha, said he left the operations in the hands of Makani and he referred all questions back to him. 
“I don’t know anything about the bus permit, fitness certificate, or the operator’s licence, Makani can answer on that,” he said. 
Back at VID, Muzori’s deputy at the depot Exavier Dzimba was cagey. 
“Don’t call CVR. I called them and they said this registration is for a bus,” he said. 
B-Metro reporters called CVR for the second time and spoke to a Mr Nduku who confirmed once again that the number plate belonged to a Toyota Coaster mini bus. 
A source close to the matter told B-Metro that at one point, the bus company attempted getting a fitness certificate in Zvishavane but efforts drew a blank. 
Meanwhile, Makani reported the reporters to the police for allegedly intimidating him. They were summoned to Bulawayo Central Police office 64 by Sergeant Chitsikani who took down their details and let them go.