Posted in: Football , Sport 
Fungai Muderere HIGHLANDERS goalie Ariel Sibanda surprised many last Sunday when he entered the field of play clad in a NetOne branded orange T-shirt. 
Bosso were playing their Castle Lager Premiership season opener against Black Rhinos at Emagumeni. At first sight, Sibanda, fondly known as Mangoye to hordes of Bosso faithfuls, resembled one of those airtime and sim card vendors employed by the celluar network. 
So funny was the unusual spectacle that it became the talk of the day that trended on social media sites throughout the week. 
In as much as it is known that NetOne sponsor Bosso, the issue didn’t go down well for the multitudes of supporters who thronged Barbourfields. 
The surprise shook most who did not understand why the shot stopper would go for that orange T-shirt, instead of an ideal goalkeeper’s jersey. 
Highlanders chief executive officer Nhlanhla Bahlangene Dube tried to explain. 
Dube, known for his eloquence, put it plainly and eased the argument. 
“Black Rhinos kit clashed with our goalkeeper’s kit. Ordinarily Black Rhinos were supposed to change their kit but they had a white kit which clashed with our infield players’ kit. 
The match officials asked us to compromise and we agreed all in the interest of the game. This is why Ariel wore his sponsor branded (NetOne) t-shirt on top of his thermal under garment,” said Dube. 
He added the club’s new kits were set to arrive at the end of this month. The club has recently been using a NetOne branded training kit for their games. The uniform is part of the sponsorship package with the mobile telecommunications company. 
“The nature of the funding deal entails the sponsor engaging the kit supplier and in this instance we will be flying Roar this year as part of the agreement. The kit supplier will provide the traditional black and white strip, away set and an emergency one including track suits among other items. 
“Our new kits arrive end of the month, the other options are branded in the older sponsor logos. There is no manager who was sleeping on duty. We could have easily refused to compromise and waited for whatever time it took for Black Rhinos to go and find a kit that would not clash and we would have been well within our rights. 
In the interest of football, fairplay and respect for our fans we chose to compromise. We will gladly take the punches for this decision,” said Dube. 
Highlanders, who are on Sunday set to fight it out against newboys Herentals at National Sports Stadium, went on to dehorn Black Rhinos 2-1 with Godfrey Makaruse and Gabriel Nyoni scoring for the Bulawayo giants. 
Veteran Lot Chiunga got the face saver for Rhinos.