Kapenta fishing for Tokwe-Mukosi Dam   THE Zimbabwe Parks and Wildlife Management Authority has launched a kapenta fish project at Tokwe-Mukosi Dam where about 100 000 fingerlings have been put for breeding.The initiative buttresses the country's ambitious Command Fisheries programme. In his keynote speech to mark the official stocking of kapenta fish into Tokwe-Mukosi on Tuesday, Masvingo Provincial Affairs Minister of State, Senator Josiah Hungwe said the new development was inspired by the successful Command Agriculture programme, which saw farmers delivering at least two million metric tonnes of maize grain to the Grain Marketing Board."Following the successful launch of the Command Agriculture programme during the 2016-17 season Government has embarked on other programmes to complement it. The Command Livestock, Command Fisheries and Wildlife management and other programmes such as command water harvesting have been initiated countrywide," said Sen Hungwe.He said the Command Agriculture and Fisheries programmes were welcome in the province given its numerous water bodies, most of which were underutilised."The Command Fisheries programme today has brought the much admired kapenta fish to Masvingo. This is not only historical but it is a great milestone for the province," the minister said.He said for a long time Mashonaland West's Lake Kariba, in particular, has been the sole water body with thriving kapenta fish industry in Zimbabwe. The fishery industry, he said, has been producing approximately 9 000 tonnes of fresh kapenta fish equating to 3 000 tonnes of dry weight. The industry is said to be contributing about $15 million to the national economy annually."All these economic benefits are now coming to Masvingo province with Tokwe-Mukosi Dam, set to be the second largest water body after Kariba Dam, to be stocked with kapenta fish," said Sen Hungwe.The introduction of kapenta fish is intended to boost the ecology of the new 1,8 billion cubic metres dam, officially commissioned in May last year. This will through the provision of fish utilise the open pelagic waters of the dam. Experts say most of the fish of economic significance and already present in the lake do not generally occupy the open pelagic water and is therefore vacant. The dam is conducive for fish population growth, game fish angling and important fish tournaments.A number of dams across the country have also benefited from the Command Fisheries project and in Masvingo a total of 225 000 fingerlings have been put in four different dams in the province. Siya Dam in Bikita has received 1 000 fingerlings, Mabvute, 2 000 and Nyatare 2500 in Zaka, Tokwe–Mukosi in Chivi and Masvingo districts got a whooping 220 000 fingerlings to date. - online