Moyo speaks on Harare town clerk Blessings Mashaya • 23 March 2018 12:38PM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Local Government minister July Moyo has for the first time opened up on the Harare City Council (HCC) town clerk issue, saying he is waiting for council’s reaction to the Local Government Board (LGB) that they could not appoint a substantive incumbent from the list that they submitted. 
HCC had forwarded the names of suspended human capital director Cainos Chingombe, Hatfield MDC legislator Tapiwa Mashakada and Gweru town clerk Elisabeth Gwatipedza to the LGB for final consideration. 
The LGB wrote to HCC advising that none of the three nominees could be appointed because Mashakada is an active MDC politician, Chingombe is yet to clear his name in the council’s salary scandal while Gwatipedza also had an issue of purchasing $40 000 curtains for her council home. 
Speaking in the National Assembly on Wednesday, Moyo said the process to choose the Harare town clerk has taken longer than expected as the recruitment process has been marred by irregularities. 
“The first attempt to recruit the substantive town clerk after the retirement of Tendai Mahachi experienced a major setback when Council violated Section 135 of the Urban Councils Act which requires that council should submit a list of at least three nominees recommended by council to the LGB for further interviews. 
“The second attempt to fill the same post saw Council submitting three nominees to the LGB who, unfortunately, failed to meet the minimum requirements as determined by the LGB. Council was then requested by the LGB to submit a list of all the candidates that it had interviewed to allow the Board to interview the same and identify a possible candidate to fill the post. 
“The LGB has recently written to the City Council explaining why they could not appoint a substantive incumbent from the list that it submitted to them. We now await Council’s reaction to this communication,” Moyo said. In 2016, council appointed former banker James Mushore to the position but he was quickly suspended by former Local Government minister Saviour Kasukuwere who accused the HCC of flouting procedure in his appointment.