Musicians in road accidents awareness ENTERTAINMENT WRITER • 24 March 2018 12:52PM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Upcoming artiste Mathias Kush said preparations for a road accidents awareness gig Hupenyu Hunokosha to be held at City Sports Bar in the capital on March 30 are at an advanced stage. 
Kush said the event will feature victims of road accidents especially musicians and sportsmen among others. 
“On March 30 there will be a gig featuring musicians who were once involved in road accidents, and share their experience to the country at the City Sports Bar in Harare. 
“We chose musicians as music is one of the fastest ways used to communicate a special message in society.” 
The notable musicians who survived road accidents include Peter Moyo, Mitchel Jambo, Tedious Matsito, Stunner and Fungisai Zvakavapano-Mashavave among others. 
Last year, Kush released a single track Upenyu Hunokosha which was followed by a march from the City Centre to Machipisa Shopping Centre in the capital in his efforts to spread awareness on road carnage. 
Kush was once involved in a horrific car accident in Zambia in 2014. 
“I survived by the grace of God hence I want to play my part in reducing if not eradicating road carnages. 
“Awareness is cheap as compared to mourning. Lost life can never be restored,” the 54-year-old artiste said. 
Kush who doubles up as a newspaper vendor in the city centre said most of the Upenyu Hunokosha CDs were distributed to motorists for free. 
“We shall continue distributing the music to motorists such that we keep reminding them to drive with caution,” he said. 
Kush is not the only artiste who preaches the gospel of good driving in the country as, last year, Dendera artiste Chamu Boroma released an emotional song about the Nyamakate bus disaster that claimed 43 lives on the spot. 
In the song Nyamakate Disaster, Boroma directly blamed the driver of the King Lion bus for speeding, therefore killing innocent passengers and making children orphans. 
Back in the days, various artistes including Oliver Mtukudzi and the late Simon Chimbetu among others released a song called Bus Driver immediately after Nyanga bus disaster of 1991 which is also called the Regina Coeli bus disaster. 
The bus was carrying Regina Coeli students and staff members coming from a sports event held at St Killians Mission near Rusape and the accident claimed 88 lives, making it arguably the country’s worst bus accident ever.