Fight against the incest scourge begins at home STAFF WRITER • 24 March 2018 1:37PM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Every week, we report a case of a father sexually assaulting their children. 
This is becoming alarming. Have fathers become sick in the head? Week after week, it’s unrelenting, these heinous acts of rape and sexual assault on minors by their very own biological fathers. We have become a sick society where children are taken advantage of by their own fathers. 
The gods must be crazy! 
What father in his right frame of mind would prey on his own daughter? Only an insane dad would do that. They think their daughter is their property and they can do whatever with it. 
We have reported so many cases of this kind. They rape their daughters, start it pretty early like when they are seven to nine. Just this week, we reported a case of a “perverted” father who allegedly raped his two young daughters, aged six and nine, and also sodomised his son. The children recounted the horrific sexual abuse in court, in camera. 
The question on any sane person’s mind is what on earth would drive someone to sexually prey on their own flesh and blood? Perhaps we have a psycho-social problem. 
In most cases that have been brought before the courts, many times, the child will hide the abuse because they feel guilty, and this is an enormous problem. The victim always feels guilty when they are, of course, not. 
We have a dilemma — parents raping their own children — people they are supposed to jealously protect at any cost. It’s one of the most mind-boggling and difficult-to-understand phenomena. 
We need to unpack what is the leading factor when it comes to such unfortunate situations, is it substance abuse, is it for ritual purposes, is it a product of toxic recommendations from traditional healers? 
Whatever the cause, we need to get to the root cause of this problem and stop it forthwith. 
The fight against this scourge in our communities begins at home. All these sexual crimes beg the question: What is the role of our religious organisations? Can they do something and help? 
Our religious leaders need to move their focus away from politics and other activities and concentrate on the spiritual upbringing of members of their congregation. 
We all need to play a bigger role. The fact that toddlers are being raped by their fathers is a national shame. Where is the humanity in us? Let’