Ndiraya guns for PSL title SPORTS WRITER • 24 March 2018 1:14PM • 0 comments 
HARARE - After watching his side earn a comfortable opening day 2-0 victory over Herentals last weekend, Ngezi Platinum Stars coach Tonderai Ndiraya believes they can go all the way this season. 
The platinum miners missed the title by a whisker last season after dropping down from first place in the last rounds of action to finish in third place behind champions FC Platinum and Dynamos. 
However, Madamburo got their 2018 Castle Lager Premiership season off to a flyer after two second half goals from Walter Mukanga and Keith Murera knocked the stuffing out of the Students, who were making their debut in the top flight league. 
Utility player Michael Charamba was on fire for Madamburo as he assisted in both goals for the home team. 
Following this flawless performance in the opening weekend, Ndiraya is convinced his side has what it takes to be serious title contenders again this season and will give traditional giants Dynamos, Highlanders, CAPS United and defending champions FC Platinum a tough run for their money. 
Tomorrow, Ngezi travel to Gibbo Stadium to face a Triangle side which is still trying to recover following a shock 1-0 away loss to Shabanie Mine at Mandava Stadium last weekend. 
“We have had a great week of preparations. We have all our players available except Stephen Owusu, our Ghanaian international, who is still holed up in Ghana waiting for his work permit,” Ndiraya said. 
“Everyone else is ready to go. Our key players who were absent in the past week due to injuries are also back in training 
“Chief among them is Frank Makarati, the central defender we acquired from How Mine and Terrence Dzvukamanja, one of our top performers from last season who are back in training. 
“Charamba who featured for us last week against Herentals had been on the injury list but quickly recovered. 
“All this is giving us hope ahead of our game against a very difficult opponent in Triangle away from home. 
“But look we have prepared our side and we are looking forward to the match. It’s going to be difficult but I believe the squad we have this year; is a better squad than we had last year and I believe in this squad we have assembled. 
“I believe this team will take us far this season and we want to improve on what we did last year. 
“It’s only reasonable for us as a club to go for the big prize and these early matches have a strong bearing on the destiny of the championship. 
“With the experience of the past season and this year, we want to do things right and this includes getting maximum points against Triangle away in Triangle.” 
Although Triangle surprisingly lost their opening match to Shabanie, Ndiraya is not taking the Sugar Sugar Boys lightly especially when they are at home. 
“We are playing a good Triangle side that is coached by one of the best coaches in the league; that is Taurai Mangwiro,” the Ngezi coach said. 
“We expect Manwgiro’s side to be tactically on point but we are confident that we also have a very good side which can beat any team on a good day. So we expect to have a good day in Triangle and expect to get a good result. 
“We want to do the best we can for our fans especially those that will travel all the way to Triangle and we don’t want to disappoint them.” 

PSL Fixtures 
Today: Mutare City v Chapungu (NSS 1pm), Black Rhinos v ZPC Kariba (NSS 3pm), Harare City v Bulawayo City (Rufaro), FC Platinum v Yadah (Mandava), Nichrut v Chicken Inn (Ascot) 
Tomorrow: Herentals v Highlanders (NSS), Triangle v Ngezi Platinum (Gibbo), Dynamos v Shabanie Mine (Rufaro), Bulawayo Chiefs v CAPS United (Luveve)