It will be tough: Nyamutsamba SPORTS WRITER • 24 March 2018 1:12PM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Zambezi Cheetahs coach Gilbert Nyamutsamba believes his side will have to be at their best if they are to defend their Victoria Falls Kwese Sevens title this weekend. 
The national Sevens side won the inaugural tournament last year when they beat Namibia 24-7 in the final. 
Nyamutsamba and his charges are using this edition of the tournament to prepare for the Hong Kong Sevens and the Rugby World Cup Sevens competitions. 
The Cheetahs coach is fully aware of the challenges posed by the likes of Uganda, who beat Zimbabwe in last year’s final of the Africa Cup Sevens in Kampala. 
“This year’s Victoria Falls Kwese Sevens tournament is going to be a closely contested edition,” Nyamutsamba told the Daily News soon after the Cheetahs’ arrival in Victoria Falls yesterday. 
“We are expecting Uganda, the Kenyans and the Zambians to be highly competitive so we will get into the tournament knowing that there are challenges ahead. 
“We know that it’s going to be a tough one; never the less the boys are ready and raging to give all that they have got; hopefully put in a good performance and get the desired results.” 
This will be the Cheetahs’ first tournament in 2018 but it has not dampened the side’s spirits ahead of this weekend. 
“Yes we would have preferred to have had a bit more time in as far as preparations are concerned; maybe play in other tournaments before we got to his one,” Nyamutsamba said. 
“But we are working with what we have. This being our first tournament since our appearance at the Africa Cup last year, we are going to use this tournament mainly for team building. We want to build a team to participate in July at the World Cup.” 
The Cheetahs are in Group A together with Uganda, Zambia A, Goshawks, Zambezi Steelers and Spartans. 
Meanwhile, Uganda’s newly-appointed captain Micheal Okorach has warned that they have come to Zimbabwe to put in a good showing. 
“Playing well in Zimbabwe and winning the trophy will be good in terms of motivating us ahead of the bigger tournaments ahead,” Okorach told Kwese Sports. 
“This tournament in Zimbabwe is a good buildup for us to check the team ahead of the Commonwealth Games and the Series qualifiers in Hong Kong. 
“We are confident that the team will put up a good show,” Kenya Rugby Union CEO Ramzy Olinga told KweseESPN.