Sibiya launches 7th book Austin Karonga • 25 March 2018 10:47AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Founder and president of Glory Ministries, Apostle Pride Sibiya last weekend launched his seventh book Double Honour Servants of God at The Ablaze Church in Seke, Chitungwiza. 
The book seeks to help Christians distinguish between true and false servants of God. 
The book is a dedication to the church’s first elders, the late Antonetta Muradzi Kutama and husband Joseph whom he described as an inspirational couple to both his family and the ministry. 
Other books to his name include His Glory Our Vision, How to Overcome Spiritual Spouses, Why Should I go To Church, Let’s Talk About Sex Babe, and The Minister’s Handbook. 
“It has been dubbed a controversial book in some quarters in the sense that obviously as a nation we are having a crisis with certain people who term themselves servants of God that are reaping people of their hard-earned cash and materials which is not right so it becomes controversial,” Sibiya told the Daily News on Sunday on the sidelines of the launch. 
“But my book comes to stand in for the genuine people of God that genuine servants of God are still there. 
“You can’t have a fake $200 note just because there’s no genuine one so I’m saying in as much as there are fake servants of God there are also genuine servants of God. 
“These are worthy of double honour as the Bible says in first Timothy that those whose work is to preach and spread the Word of God are worthy of double honour. 
“So I expect the book to make an impact in that those who have been looking for the correct teaching in terms of honouring servants of God it will really make an impact because people will understand how to do it without necessarily worshipping a man because man is not God. 
“I think in the intro I explained that we must not pray to a man, a man is not God but we must honour servants of God to a certain degree.” 
A graduate of the University of Zimbabwe and Domboshawa Theological College, the 40-year-old servant of God said coming up with this book was more of writing a personal life manual as he has often practiced double honouring. 
“It has been a burden in my life to stand with the servants of God and indeed many of the great servants of God in Zimbabwe I do stand with them in one way or the other. 
“Some of them I have given them cars, some of them I have given them money and some of them I’m going to be writing books about them,” Sibiya added. 
“I support Men of God, this is a personal ministry that I have. Writing the book was like writing a manual about my life. 
“I don’t remember many great men of God that I have not supported and I believe I prosper through honouring and supporting servants of God.” 
He expects the nation to not only honour the men of God but the elderly as well in order to receive the blessing from above. 
“What I want Zimbabwe to know is that we have got elderly people amongst us some of whom we have surrendered to Old People’s homes . . . those people are very close and dear to God. 
“If we don’t honour them a curse will come upon the people of Zimbabwe so it is very important just like what the President Emmerson Mnangagwa is doing to the former president Robert Mugabe, he’s taking care of him,” Sibiya said. 
“It is very critical in terms of honouring the elderly because the Bible says when you honour the elderly you will be given the blessing of longevity, you will have a long life, long life in marriage, long life in ministry, long life in business, long life as a nation so it is important for us to remember those who have gone before us even today we might see them as if they are bad but all the handsome we actually have come from them. 
“And the ugliness you think they now have it is because of the years and years of struggle for us so we need to honour those people and as we honour them God will honour the nation on a spiritual level.” 
On the inspiration behind the late Antonetta, Sibiya said she was a prayer warrior who together with her husband Joseph would also support the ministry in many different ways. 
“Antonetta had a great impact. She was one of our first elders in the church and she was really a prayer warrior. The first thing that she would do was to go up the mountain and spend days just praying for me that I may do the work of the ministry the correct way, and that I may not be taken by the worldly things, together with her husband Joseph,” he said. 
“But apart from that they would support the work of the ministry materially, financially, they would support in terms of bringing equity in the church in terms of where they were issues of conflict they would come in as elderly people and resolve the dispute amicably. They really had a great impact in my life and ministry.” 
He is married to Apostle Anna Tendayi Chiweshe Sibiya and are blessed with three daughters. 
“She is my personal intercessor, she supports me all the way, she gives me time to write, affords me an opportunity to do a lot of things in the ministry, sometimes I actually kind of short-change her and the kids in terms of family time compared to the time I use in the ministry but she continues to edge me to go on, including the issue that I was talking about of honouring the Men of God presently I have given away three cars, it’s not easy to give something as big as a car and your wife is not supporting you,” he said. 
Glory Ministries was founded in 2001 by Sibiya and presently it is found in five nations namely; Mozambique, Zambia, South Africa, Bahrain in the United Arab Emirate and Zimbabwe.