Ryan opens up on Hre City move Godknows Matarutse • 25 March 2018 10:12AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - The desire to see his father’s project become a success and hunger for new challenges, pushed goalkeeper Ryan Harrison to sign for Castle Lager Premiership side — Harare City. 
’s Absa Premiership or anywhere outside Zimbabwe, for Ryan, it’s the other way round. 
’s more important at this stage of his career is to share the experience he got and probably inspire youngsters especially at his new home at the Sunshine Boys. 
A lot of players here in Zimbabwe want to go and play in SA and Europe but for me I have experienced all of that,” Ryan revealed to the Daily News on Sunday. 
I know what it takes to succeed if you like or to get to that kind of level so I am hoping I can pass on that experience to players around especially at Harare City given the direction they want to go on developing young players. 
So I feel I can be part of that and offer that knowledge and experience which I have gained as a player. I am also here to learn as much as anybody else. I started my career in England, played for Swansea and a couple of teams in between before moving to South Africa. 
I played in PSL for Wits and Arrows and enjoyed my time there for about seven years roughly. God gave me the opportunity to come here and try something different. I hope to offer what I have learnt over the years to other people.” 
. 
I have learnt a lot from my dad. I was embroiled in that life since day one, I woke up into the world when he was playing and shortly after that he started coaching, so most of it I learnt from him at a young age,” Ryan said. 
He also never put any pressure on me since I was young. He allowed me to choose my own path and make my own decisions for my future. However, there was no other way for me other than football since I was at school. So yeah, I have learnt a lot over the years.” 
’s father apparently arrived at City last year having been engaged to take the club to a new level especially following his heroics during the short but eventful stint with CAPS United in 2015 before off the field troubles forced him to leave for Botswana where he proceeded to lift the league title with Township Rollers that same year. 
“Beefy” Ncube. 
If given an opportunity to play I would love to do my best and help the team move forward. I am here to play, not to sit around and make friends. I’m here to do well. I want to succeed because I am a professional that’s always my drive,” Ryan said. 
’s not my fault. I think my team-mates have seen that already. I always want to win.” 
Ryan, however, feels working with his father brings complications. 
’s very easy for people to assume that I might get favourable treatment. It’s very easy to assume. But I would want to try work hard and eliminate that,” Ryan laments. 
’s how it works. 
’t really be questioned. Our approach is professional and I don’t think there is going to be special treatment for anybody. 
’s the same way in England and everywhere. I can’t sit back and relax in training because it’s not how it works.” 
Reflecting on his career, Ryan does not have any regrets. 
” he said. 
’t think regret is the word I would want to use to describe anything. I have enjoyed my time as a player. I have enjoyed the experience. 
’t go your way and you say to yourself ‘I could have done this or didn’t say that’ probably things could have come different that time. 
and regret is the wrong thing.” 
On his future Ryan is not closing the door to other opportunities in the future. 
’t control or change and I wish him all the best hope that he recovers and play the game,” he said. 
’s something difficult and you never know what tomorrow brings. So one way you would rather keep your options open and take it one step at a time.” 
Mark believes his son is coming with experience that can benefit a lot of youngsters at the club. 
” the City coach said. 

”