Nigel Matongorere • 25 March 2018 10:00AM • 0 comments 
Harare City (0) 1 Bulawayo City 0 
HARARE - Martin Vengesai scored the winning goal for Harare City as they punished a wasteful Bulawayo City in a Castle Lager Premiership match yesterday. 
Vengesai, who was introduced late in the first half for a disappointing Denzel Chimwemwe, scored with a scrambled finish inside the box in the 73rd minute. 
Yesterday’s win means Harare City remain unbeaten in two games and are yet to concede a goal following a goalless draw with CAPS United last weekend in their opening match of the 2018 season. 
The Sunshine Boys’ coach Mark Harrison was pleased his side was able to get the three points but was critical of their performance. 
“The first half was shocking and as their coach has just said; they (Bulawayo City) should have been two or three nil up at halftime if they had taken their chances,” Harrison said. 
“But in football if you do not take your chances you will get punished. The game was, however, a game of two halves. 
“They dominated the first half but I think the turning point was when Tendai Samanja came into the game. 
“He (Samanja) brought a lot of authority into our midfield; he brought a lot more experience and stability which we were lacking.” 
Bulawayo City coach Darlington Dodo was disappointed with his team’s finishing and the decision by the match officials to deny his team a penalty in the first half. 
Takudzwa Chimwemwe hacked down Timothy January inside the box eight minutes before the break but the referee waved play on. 
“I think we did not do ourselves a favour especially in the first half because we controlled the game from the early stages; they (Harare City) were slow to settle and we settled quickly,” Dodo said. 
“We were too elaborate in front of goal and at the end it backfired. I also feel the referee was supposed to award us a penalty which I think could have changed the complexion of the game.” 
After winning 2-0 their opening match last weekend against Chapungu with Ishmael Wadi getting both goals, Bulawayo City started the match full of confidence. 
They were let down by poor finishing from Wadi, Clive Rupiya and Rainsome Pavari which in the end cost them the three points. 
Harare City : Maxwell Nyamupanedengu, Raymond Uchena, Munyaradzi Diro-Nyenye, Takudzwa Chimwemwe, Bright Chayambuka, Learnmore Muyambo (Tendai Samanja 68m), Moses Muchenje, William Manondo (Malvinas Gaki 56m), Tatenda Tumba, Kuda Musharu, Denzel Chimwemwe (Martin Vengesai 44m) 
Bulawayo City : Wellington Muuya, Zephaniah Ngodzo, Humphrey Ncube, Crispen Ncube, Eric Mudzingwa, Tatenda Tavengwa, Rainsome Pavari (Trevor Ndhlovu 77m), Ishamel Wadi, Tawanda Muyendi (Toto Banda 66m)y, Timothy January, Clever Rupiya (Justine Kaunda 78m) 
Results: 
FC Platinum 2-0 Yadah FC, Harare City 1-0 Bulawayo City, Nichrut 0-0 Chicken Inn, Black Rhinos 2-0 ZPC Kariba, Mutare City 2-3 Chapungu