Doves takes clients on holiday Lifestyle Writer • 25 March 2018 9:52AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Doves Funeral policyholders were accorded the opportunity to unwind on a holiday escapade for two nights courtesy of the organisation’s Lifestyle Package. 
The Dove Lifestyle Package is a funeral policy which comes with a holiday provision for the policy holder after 12 months of policy inception and the second after three years. 
It provides top-of-the-range caskets and executive courtesy vehicles to provide comfort at the time of bereavement. 
This funeral policy accords the deceased to celebrate life before they reach their final resting place. 
This year, the couples were treated to an all-expenses paid, sun-filled holiday in relaxed comfort in Kariba. 
They were booked for two nights at the magnificent Caribbea Bay Resort which is located on the shore of the lake Kariba. 
The group experienced a guided tour of the Chinhoyi Caves en route to Kariba. The following day they enjoyed a tour of the Kariba Dam where they got to learn about the history and traditions of the local Tonga people and the mysteries of the Nyaminyami, the Zambezi River god. 
This was all capped off with the legendary Lake Kariba sunset cruise where they indulged on snacks and beverages on board. 
The participants finished off the night with a born fire dinner on the shore and were entertained by a live band. 
“My sister-in-law thought I was playing tricks on her when I asked her to pack bags and accompany me to a holiday paid for by Doves Funeral Assurance,” said one Musakanya who joined the funeral policy after having heard testimonials from satisfied clients on national television. 
Another client remarked at the beauty of the Kariba Dam which she had planned to visit for years. 
“My mother and I had never been to Kariba. I did not know that my funeral policy would one day give me such an experience to connect with my mother, this Dove Lifestyle Package surely celebrates life before it honours death.” 
Doves Funeral Assurance marketing executive Michelle Ganga who accompanied participants on this trip said this product was introduced in 2013 and the portfolio is growing through referrals from satisfied clients. 
“Doves is known for successful product innovation and we continually interact with our market in order for us to provide unique tailor-made packages. 
“The Dove Lifestyle is a key case in point of our innovation and ability to anticipate and respond to global trends,” said Ganga. 
Dove-Lifestyle-Package Related Articles