24 schools through to Old Mutual Quiz finals Lifestyle Writer • 25 March 2018 9:47AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - At least 24 schools drawn from eight provinces have secured their places to participate in the Old Mutual Schools Quiz national finals scheduled for May 25 in Harare. 
On Saturday last week, the schools participated in the Old Mutual provincial quiz competition and only top three schools were selected from each province to proceed into national competition. 
Matabeleland North and Mashonaland West failed to take part in Old Mutual Schools Quiz held last week due to low turnout but however, they will hold their preliminary competition at a date to be announced. 
“The two provinces could still be allowed to host their provincial finals at later date. We had eight provinces that took part in the Old Mutual Schools Quiz provincial finals held at the weekend. 
“And only the top three schools from each province would go through to the national finals set for May 25. So before May 25 we should have winners from the other two provinces,” Old Mutual Schools Quiz spokesperson Takudzwa Tsikwa said. 
Winning school from each province walked away with a laptop for the quiz club to enable further research, courtesy of Old Mutual. 
“There were trophies for the provincial winners to be handed at the national finals which will be broadcast live on ZBCTV,” Tsikwa said. 
Some of the winning schools at provincial level include St Ignatius, Daramombe and Watershed, representing Mashonaland East, Midlands will be represented by Fletcher High School, Shungu High and Regina Mundi while in Masvingo there will be Pamushana, Sandon Academy and St Anthony. 
Manicaland will be represented by St Faiths, Marist Brothers Nyanga and Hartzel while Bulawayo will be represented by Northlea, Gifford and Montrose Girls High. 
Matabeleland South will be represented by Mtshabezi, Wanezi and St Marys while Mashonaland Central will be represented Rujeko, Bradley High and St Alberts. 
Harare will be represented by Zengeza 1, Prince Edward and Seke1. A record 200 schools from across the country participated in the new season of Old Mutual Schools Quiz. 
Since 1983, when Old Mutual launched the quiz programme, focus was always on high schools, however, primary schools now participate as a measure of empowerment and recognition of their ability. 
Zimbabwe is only third to India and United Kingdom in terms of school quiz participation in terms of schools. Quiz is a national culture in these three countries.