Gospel songbird Chawapiwa makes a comeback Lifestyle Writer • 25 March 2018 9:44AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Gospel songstress Tsitsi Chawapiwa, has bounced back on the local music scene after a seven-year break. 
Chawapiwa, whose last offering was a 10-track album titled Tendeuka released in 2011, has just dropped three singles which are faring well on various local charts. 
“I took a break to go and study and I have just returned to the music industry with three singles namely Zichanaka, Handimbokutevera Satan and Mazviita Mwari which are doing well on National FM, Radio Zimbabwe and Sport FM,” she told the Daily News on Sunday. 
In a bid to make her comeback a resounding one, the gospel songstress, who is a nurse by profession, has made videos for the three songs which will be part of her forthcoming album scheduled to be released next month. 
“Visuals are very important in the promotion of music nowadays and for that reason I have enlisted two top video directors to do the three videos. 
“Award-winning music video director Willard “Slimaz” Magombedze won the 2013 National Arts Merit Award (Nama) Music Video Director of the Year award while Anesu Kisimisi from Vision City is also making a name for himself in a big way. I am very convinced that music fans will fall in love with the videos,” said Chawapiwa. 
The veteran gospel artiste has also lined up a live DVD recording which will coincide with the launch of her forthcoming album at the end of next month. 
“I hope to do the live DVD recording and album launch at the end of April. Those keen to remain in the loop as far as developments in my music career are concerned, should follow my Facebook page titled Tsitsi Chawapiwa Music,” she said. 
Chawapiwa broke onto the local gospel scene in 2009 with an eight-track title album titled Zvandiri after which she released her second album Tendeuka in 2011. 
“I am happy because gospel music fans still like my early music. I am sure the three new singles and the album to be released next month will take my music career to new heights,” she said.