  Local › News › Zimra sues Pasi for $218k for fraud, abuse of office Zimra sues Pasi for $218k for fraud, abuse of office March 25, 2018 in Local , News 
THE Zimbabwe Revenue Authority (Zimra) is demanding $217 624 from its former commissioner-general, Gershem Pasi, accusing him of abuse of office and fraud. Zimra issued the summons on March 21 and Pasi, who was forced out last year, is yet to enter an appearance to defend. 
BY CHARLES LAITON 
According to court papers, a forensic audit carried out on the operations of the parastatal during the period from July to September 2016 revealed that Pasi enriched himself “through fraud and/or fraudulent misrepresentations, and/or abuse of his office and/or in breach of his contract of employment”. 
“For the period extending from July 1, 2014 to June 2015, the defendant [Pasi] wrongly and unlawfully caused the plaintiff [Zimra] to incur running costs in respect of fuelling, servicing and insurance in the sum of $8 509 for his Toyota Hilux and Corolla after he had purchased the said vehicles from the plaintiff,” Zimra said in its declaration. 
The authority said Pasi also swindled his former employer in June 2014 when he travelled to the United States on business and was allowed by the Ministry of Finance an approved accommodation rate of $279 per night instead of $210 per night in terms of Zimra’s guiding policy. 
“This was on condition that he would produce invoices on return. However, on return the defendant produced invoices for five out of 12 nights that were supposed to be accounted for…as a result, the prejudice suffered by plaintiff is $483,” read the court papers. 
Zimra said on February 5, 2015 Pasi allegedly claimed and received a refund of airport transfer costs, the equivalent of $2 080, for a holiday to Seychelles during the period January 20-23, 2015 when in fact the amount had already been catered for by the spending money provided for under his contract of employment. 
“Further, during his period of employment with the plaintiff, the defendant conducted himself in an unlawful, negligent and reckless manner and in clear breach of his contract and his obligation as a public officer and wrongfully caused the plaintiff to suffer a huge financial prejudice in the sum of $205 178,” Zimra said. The matter is still pending.