More exhibits expected at Byo Agricultural Show   Sunday, Mar 25, 2018 | 1765 views Mrs Natalie Adlam 
Dumisani Nsingo, Senior Farming Reporter THE lifting of the quarantine in most areas previously affected by Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) by the Department of Livestock and Veterinary Services is likely to culminate in the increase in cattle exhibiting at this year’s Bulawayo Agricultural Show. 
Bulawayo Agricultural Society administrative officer Mrs Natalie Adlam said about 150 cattle are expected to be on display at this year’s exhibition, an increase from 80 showcased last year. The Bulawayo Agricultural Show runs concurrently with the Zimbabwe International Trade Fair and will be held from 24 to 28 April. 
“A yarding of 120 to 150 head of cattle is expected, higher than that of 2017. Pedigree cattle are expected to be on display, from Matopos Research Station, Khami Prison and Esigodini Agricultural College. The recent lifting of quarantine for FMD should assist in the preparation of all cattle attending the show. The Department of Veterinary Services continues to strictly monitor the situation,” said Mrs Adlam. 
The judging of sheep and goats would make a return this year. 
“Sheep and goats exhibits from (FMD) clean areas will be allowed and we will have judging — a first for many years,” said Mrs Adlam. 
Entries in the poultry and crops section are closing next week while entries for the home industries section have been closed and are in the process of being collated. 
“The late rains that fell this year may impact on some regions due to the moisture content in the crops, but a good exhibition is expected. The poultry section continues to grow and a better exhibition by both commercial and communal farmers is expected,” said Mrs Adlam. 
As the tradition, the committee would be putting on a small horse show, which has over the years been one of the most popular events at the Show. 
“The Society’s main arena will, once again, be filled to the brim with sponsor companies, who will be showcased in our main arena, with their display of farming implements, tractors, vehicles, seed, veterinary products among other agricultural implements and inputs,” said Mrs Adlam.-@DNsingo >