  Sport › Stubborn Nichrut hold Chicken Inn Stubborn Nichrut hold Chicken Inn March 26, 2018 in Sport 
DEBUTANTS Nichrut were yet again impressive as they held perennial title contenders Chicken Inn to a goalless draw to maintain an unbeaten start to life in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League in a match played at Ascot Stadium in Gweru yesterday. 
BY TERRY MADYAUTA Chicken Inn…0 
In the first half, Joey Antipas’ men failed to breach the jittery Nichrut back line. 
In the 23rd minute, Nichrut defender Spencer Masunda nearly scored direct from a corner kick, but his effort was denied by the cross bar, with Chicken Inn goalkeeper Elvis Chipezeze rooted on one spot. 
The Gamecocks created little in the second half. Veteran striker Obadiah Tarumbwa’s free kick from just outside the box almost snatched victory for Chicken Inn, but the Shurugwi miners’ goalkeeper Tafadzwa Jabangwe parried it to safety. 
Chicken Inn’s second half substitute Darryl Nyandoro wasted some chances while veteran linkman Simon Munawa was also denied by Jabangwe. 
Antipas was disappointed by his team’s performance. 
“We dominated this game, but somehow we couldn’t get the goals,” he said. 
“From the start, we got chance after chance, but the guys could not convert. Right now team combinations are now clicking and with these two games, I think the team is getting better.” 
Nichrut coach John Nyikadzino praised his players for their fighting spirit. 
“We did well, but I must admit that Chicken Inn dominated the game. We are happy to have come out of this encounter with a point. The boys showed character by holding Chicken Inn and preventing them from scoring,” he said. 
Meanwhile, champions FC Platinum made light work of visiting Yadah Stars with a 2-0 win at Mandava Stadium. Speedy winger Marshall Mudehwe scored in the 10th minute and new boy Farai Madhanhanga added the second one three minutes before half-time to collect maximum points. 
With the victory, FC Platinum shot to the summit of the log standings after they were awarded last week’s match in which ZPC Kariba failed to turn up at Harare’s National Sports Stadium.