  Entertainment › Life & Style › Mudzudzu celebrates birthday with gig Mudzudzu celebrates birthday with gig March 26, 2018 in Entertainment , Life & Style 
Music promoter David Mudzudzu, aka Boss Mudzudzu, celebrated his 45th birthday on Thursday, and today a galaxy of musicians take to the stage at Club Joy Centre at Machipisa shopping centre, Highfield, to celebrate the life of a man whom they believe has “changed the way the music industry functions in the country”. 
By Staff Reporter 
More than 16 groups will take to the stage at the birthday bash that kicks off at 1pm and ends the following morning. 
Progress Chipfumo, Somandla Ndebele, Freddy Manjalima [aka Kapfupi], Tryson Chimbetu, Tendai Dembo, Baba Harare, Mark Ngwazi, Nyasha Mugari, Potifa Mopo, Blessing and Sasha as well as David Chipoyi will take turns to entertain the audience at the popular joint. 
Touted for bringing music to the people through open-air gigs at Club Joy Centre PaFio every Friday, Saturday and Sunday throughout the year, Mudzudzu said there was no better way to celebrate life than through a free-for-all gig. 
“Life is indeed a blessing and being on the other side of 40, I feel blessed with each passing year. My birthday celebrations at Club Joy Centre on Sunday [today] are indeed the cherry on top of what has been an exciting journey in life. I invite all music lovers and the Highfield community at large to come and celebrate with me,” Mudzudzu said. 
Comedian-cum-musician Kapfupi said he was happy to be part of the entertainers at the event. 
“I have known Mudhara Mudzudzu for a long time. He has been helpful to us as artistes and he is one such man who has worked hard for the development of the arts sector in the country,” said Kapfupi. 
The Mai Nga hitmaker said he would perform comedy. 
“I am not singing, but I will do comedy to celebrate Mudzudzu’s life,” he said. 
Dembo, who performs regularly at the joint, paid tribute to Mudzudzu, describing the promoter-cum-businessman as a blessing to the arts sector. 
“I am grateful to people like Mudzudzu, who beyond doing it for business also spare a thought for the welfare of artistes. Even when chips are down, you are guaranteed a slot at Club Joy Centre and as this big-hearted man celebrates his day, we wish him the Lord’s blessing,” Dembo said. 
Mudzudzu, who was born and bred in Mhondoro, said he owed his life and success to the support of his family, God the creator and all his peers, supporters and fans in the music industry who have always rallied behind him. 
“No man is an island and I believe my success is largely because of the moral support I receive from my family, God Himself, my peers in the music industry and the music lovers and customers who continue frequenting my entertainment joints both in Harare and Chitungwiza,” he said.