  Nkiwane fishes out gospel music talent Nkiwane fishes out gospel music talent   
UPCOMING gospel artistes in Bulawayo are being blessed through the efforts of award-winning gospel music minister and producer Knowledge Nkiwane, who is working hard to fish out gospel music talent or the greenhorns in the trade who have their roots in the region. Nkiwane’s efforts are now coming to fruition. 
By albertmasaka 
The Lento kaJehova hitmaker told The Standard Style that he was leaving no stone unturned in his mission to promote gospel music through talent identification and the holding of live shows as well as helping rising musicians in the production of their projects. 
He said he has identified the music talents of Innocent Nyoni, who he is helping to produce an album, songstress Monica Dube, who has two albums under production, and Dumi Sebata from Gwanda. 
“There is a boy called Innocent Nyoni that I am helping to produce an album, he has one album; and a lady called Monica Ncube that I am also helping to produce and she has two albums,” Nkiwane said. 
“There are many upcoming gospel artistes. for example, in Gwanda there is a guy called Dumi, who is an upcoming gospel artiste, and many others others with good music that carries special messages.” 
Nkiwane revealed that he has roped in gospel singer Sis Tholakele to promote a gospel show in Gwanda, but they were still looking for sponsorship for the event. 
“Sis Tholakele and I have come together to host the Gwanda show, but we are yet to get sponsorship. We also intend to help other artistes. We will have officials that I will not mention at this point who will help those artistes to be recognised,” he said. 
Nkiwane said they had other shows lined up this year, but they are yet to confirm the dates as well as recording a live DVD titled Ingumlilo Lento in South Africa. 
“After April 7, note that we will have the dates for the shooting of the music video entitled Ingumlilo Lento. We are yet to host many shows in South Africa and Bulawayo. This year we are releasing an album titled Ngihamba Ngikunyayila,” he said. 
“We have already done a song that is being played by different radio stations in the country and it’s entitled Umusa Wakho and the song is breathtaking and we are anticipating to release the album in June.” 
He urged gospel fans to desist from buying pirated DVDs from street vendors because compiling an album was a huge investment. 
“We know our fans have been supporting us and we hope and pray that they will continue to support us,” he said. 
A songwriter, composer and producer, Nkiwane, whose music has made inroads in the South African markets, also owns a recording company — Knowlesmusicpro — as he seeks to plough back to the community that nurtured him by promoting local gospel music. 
Nkiwane received the Best Male Artiste award at the Guateng Gospel Music Awards in December last year through his second album, Ingumlilo Lento. 
The 36-year-old born-again Christian launched his sixth album titled Uvukile uLazaro last year in Johannesburg, which has been well-received. The album is available both on CD and DVD. 
Like Ingumlilo Lento, the latest album was recorded at his company Knowlesmusicpro, and mainly deals with day-to-day challenges. It urges Christians not to give up the fight against evil. 
A Deacon at Brethren in Christ Church in South Africa, Nkiwane has shared the stage with the big fish in his chosen genre, including Rebecca Malope, Hlengiwe Mhlaba and Mkhululi Bhebhe, among others. 
Married to Nesisa, their marriage has been blessed with two children, — a girl, Nkosinomusa, who at 10 years of age is already a songwriter, and a seven-year-old boy, Blessed, who is also a musician and dancer. 
lYou may contact the columnist, Albert Masaka, on e-mail: albertmasaka7@gmail.com