- March 24, 2018 MDC-T vice-president Thokozani Khupe 
MDC-T deputy president, Thokozani Khupe (pictured) has been officially fired from the party for partaking in unconstitutional activities, putting the party into disrepute and undermining the constitutional organs of the party. 
by Everson Mushava 
Khupe was fired together with organising secretary, Abednico Bhebhe and suspended MDC-T spokesperson, Obert Gutu as the party also introduced prayer sessions at Harvest House every Monday and Friday until the elections. In a statement after the party’s national council meeting yesterday, deputy national chairman, Morgan Komichi said Khupe spurned negotiation efforts by party leader, Nelson Chamisa and opted to remain stubborn, obdurate and intransigent. 
“On VP Khupe, the national council noted the efforts for engagement made by the party president and the fact that VP Khupe remained stubborn, obdurate, and intransigent and spurned all party efforts to address her grievances, as she continued to hold illegal meetings and partake in unconstitutional activities, putting the party into disrepute and undermining the constitutional organs of the party,” he said. 
“The national council, therefore, resolved, by more than the mandatory two thirds of the vote, that VP Khupe be removed from the party in terms of the party’s constitution.” 
Komichi added: “The national council, by the more than the mandatory two thirds of the vote, resolved to remove him (Bhebhe) from the party on allegations of his unconstitutional behaviour and for continuously putting the party into disrepute. 
“The national council resolved, by a unanimous vote, to expel suspended party spokesperson Obert Chaurura Gutu.” The national council further resolved to recall Khupe and Bhebhe from Parliament with immediate effect. 
The party also resolved to communicate the latest developments to Parliament, Zimbabwe Electoral Commission, the diplomatic community and civic organisations. 
“The national council formally accepted the resignation from the party by the national chairman, Mr Lovemore Ndodana Moyo, which he has tendered to the leadership. 
“The council wished him well in all his future endeavours,” Komichi said. 
Khupe and Chamisa have been haggling over the leadership of the party following the death of party leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, last month. 
Khupe refused to recognise Chamisa after he was endorsed by the national council, arguing she was next in line, as the only deputy elected at congress. 
The succession battles turned violent, while Chamisa and Khupe addressed parallel rallies. 
The national council also received all applications and CVs from the provinces and districts from candidates intending to represent the party in council and parliamentary elections due this year. 
“The national council resolved that intercession prayers for the party, the party leadership and all the people of Zimbabwe be held at the party’s headquarters, at Morgan Tsvangirai House (Harvest House) and at every party provincial office every Monday and Friday until after the elections.” 
However, Khupe has reportedly already written to the Zimbabwe Electoral Commission informing the electoral body that she was the leader of the party and would participate in the forthcoming elections. Related posts: