- March 27, 2018 President E.D Mnangagwa 
PRESIDENT Emmerson Mnangagwa has pledged to change the face of the Zimbabwean economy by dealing with red tape in government to lure foreign investors. 
BY BLESSED MHLANGA 
Speaking at the Africa CEO’s Forum in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire, yesterday, Mnangagwa said he was ready to remove all restrictions that affect investment in Zimbabwe. 
“My government will strive to eliminate all investment restrictions,” he said in his opening remarks. 
Mnangagwa pledged to return Zimbabwe back to the “league of nations”. 
“Zimbabwe’s attendance here resonates with our current quest to engage and re-engage with the family of nations following years of isolation due to the illegal economic sanctions imposed on us. This platform provides me and my delegation with an opportunity to network with key decision makers from a broad spectrum of business, industry and commerce, from Africa and beyond guided by our mantra that Zimbabwe is now open for business,” he said. 
Mnangagwa said he was ready to interact with the international community to ensure that Zimbabwe leap frogs from years of stagnation. 
“We stand ready to share our knowledge and experiences, new technologies and innovations as well as other aspects of best global practice… Zimbabwe is open for business and I invite you to come and invest in Zimbabwe, together, we can build our great continent, together, we can change our world. Let us be listening presidents,” he said. Mnangagwa shared the opening platform with President Nana Akufo-Addo of Ghana, the host President Alassane Ouattara and the president of the Africa CEO Forum Amir Ben Yahmed who delivered their speeches. 
Since taking over the reins in November last year through a military-backed transition, Mnangagwa has been singing the Zimbabwe is open for business hymn to rebuild the economy decimated by years of policy inconsistencies. 
The Africa CEO’s Forum is an influential annual forum for public-private dialogue on the continent. Related posts: