No Comments Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckerberg 
Facebook stock lost $75 billion market capitalization in a week in the wake of the Cambridge Data scandal with the US government probing the social media giant over privacy concerns. 
The loss marked Facebook ’s third worst week of all time. Facebook’s recent problems rose after it was discovered that a research firm, Cambridge Analytica allegedly gained improper access to the personal user data of more than 50 million users. 
By Pearson Mbendera 
The company’s shares fell more than 13 percent for the week, closing Friday just below $160. 
According to the Times, the data that Cambridge Analytica harvested is said to have allowed the company to exploit the private social media activity of a huge swath of the American electorate, developing techniques that underpinned its work on President Donald Trump’s campaign in 2016. 
Cambridge Analytica reportedly used the information to build profiles on American voters that were later used to help elect US President Donald Trump in 2016. 
Facebook CEO, Mark Zuckerberg has issued an apology saying that the scandal was a breach of trust and that they were working towards ensuring that it never happens again. “This was a breach of trust, and I’m sorry we didn’t do more at the time. We’re now taking steps to ensure this doesn’t happen again,” reads an apology ad Zuckerberg posted in in the UK’s The Observer. 
Last week, Facebook suspended Cambridge Analytica’s account over concerns the firm violated the social media site’s policies. 
Cambridge Analytica has repeatedly denied that the firm used any of Facebook’s data in the work it did for Trump’s campaign. The company also said it deleted the data when Facebook alerted them in 2015 that it had been improperly shared. 
But in the apology that Mark Zuckerberg issued, he referred to Cambridge Analytica as the company that created a, “quiz app built that leaked Facebook data of millions of people in 2014.” 
It remains to be seen whether the apology issued my Zuckerberg will go a long way in easing the lost confidence of investors in the social media company. There are a lot of company brands that pulled their accounts from the social media platform. 