  Entertainment › Life & Style › Shumba’s studio discovers hidden talent Shumba’s studio discovers hidden talent March 27, 2018 in Entertainment , Life & Style 
A number of upcoming and established artistes in and around Manicaland province are realising the fruits of Blessing Shumba’s studio — Psalmist Studio Mutare — that opened its doors in October last year. 
BY CLAYTON MASEKESA 
Shumba set up the studio after getting assistance from Ring Driving School for which he is a brand ambassador. 
With only about six months in operation, the studio has seen more than 30 artistes releasing complete albums, while more than 50 musicians have recorded singles. 
Chief producer at the studio Joseph Makiwa said studio work had been hectic as more musicians were eager to record at the state-of-the art studio. 
“Since we opened the studio in October last year, we have been having a lot of musicians both from Manicaland and other areas coming for rehearsals and recordings. The huge response has been overwhelming,” Makiwa said. 
He said musicians from as far as Masvingo, Chivhu and Harare have been coming to the studio to record various projects. 
“The opening of this studio has opened hidden musical talents. I have seen that there are many talented artistes here in Mutare and surrounding areas. So, the studio will cater for those artistes. It will be easier for them to record here because there will be no need to travel to Harare,” he said. 
Makiwa said Manicaland has rich talent in music and the studio was doing much in tapping the raw talent. 
“As a producer, I will then give professional guidance and mentorship in terms of production. Many of the musicians are coming up with excellent projects and I am impressed with how they are willing to achieve their goals,” he said. 
“We do all types of music and the studio has recorded gospel, Zimdancehall, jazz and sungura music, among others. I am now calling on all artistes to come and do their recordings,” he said. 
Shumba said he was excited to have opened the studio which would boost the careers of musicians. 
“I am inviting musicians of any genre to come forward and help each other. In our studio we want decent music, good music that teaches good moral values. I would not accept music with vulgar language and politics,” he said. 
“As of now, we are already working with various musicians and we are very overwhelmed and encouraged by the way things are going so far.”