  Sport › Baylis comes tops at Nomads monthly game Baylis comes tops at Nomads monthly game March 27, 2018 in Sport 
SEASONED teaching professional golfer Mike Baylis dominated the Mashonaland Nomads Monthly Game played at Wingate Golf Club last Sunday, winning the A Division and finishing with the best gross. 
BY DANIEL NHAKANISO 
The third monthly game of the year, which was sponsored by Alpha Media Holdings, was played under the stableford format and attracted a big field of 133 golfers. Baylis, who is the former president of the Zimbabwe Professional Golf Association (ZPGA) and the Zimbabwe Junior Golf Association (ZJGA), topped the leaderboard after finishing on 36 points, one ahead of Mark Ruck. 
The duo were both playing off a handicap of one. 
Baylis was also named the Best Player of the Game (sponsored by Montclair Hotel) and also won the prize for the lowest gross score. 
The B Division title was won by 13-handicapper Bruce Bath on 36 points while Nick Tambling, who was playing of a handicap of 12, was the runner-up on the same number of points. 
Sam Moyo (18) won the C Division title on 36 points while Pascal Musavaya, playing off a 17-handicap, was the runner-up on the same number of points. 
The quartet of Sam Moyo, Ruck, Dumi Mabhena and Kenias Mafukidze were the best playing four ball after amassing 138 points, eight ahead of the runners-up Ben Ajidah, Tom Swaile, Pat Cornish and Harshad Patel. 
The next Nomads Mashonaland Monthly Game will be played at Norton Country Club on April 8 before the Zimbabwe Nationals to be held at The Brooke Golf Club from April 29 to May 1. 
Nomads Golf Club is a non-profit organisation whose operation is guided by the following principles: 
l To encourage and promote, foster and support the game of golf and in particular to provide a source of service as may be used for the benefit of golf. 
l To generate funds which may be distributed in the furtherance of golf and to such charitable causes as the members of Nomads may deem proper. 
These principles are summarised by the club badge, a bell crossed by a golf club, which is symbolic of the raison d’être of Nomads Golf Club –“through golf, the remembrance of others”. 
Nomads Golf Club, first established in South Africa in 1960, is a society of golfers drawn from various clubs and who play their regular competitions on a variety of different courses, hence the name “Nomads”. 
Nomads Golf Club has since spread to other countries including Zimbabwe, Botswana, Swaziland, Zambia as well as New Zealand and Australia. 
In Zimbabwe there are three established clubs, namely Mashonaland, Matabeleland and Midlands.