  Sport › Maketa destined for greatness Maketa destined for greatness March 27, 2018 in Sport 
ST GEORGE’S College is renowned for producing a host of sports personalities who have gone on to make an indelible mark on the Zimbabwean sporting landscape. Names of famous local sports personalities who came through the ranks at the famous school on their way to international stardom include national 200m record holder and 2008 Olympics finalist Brian Dzingai, former Test cricketers Andy and Grant Flower, football star Mathew Rusike and retired tennis star Genius Chidzikwe, just to name a few. 
BY JOTHAM GUTSA 
Sixteen-year-old Simba Maketa already looks well poised to follow in those footsteps of St George’s College’s sporting alumni after a storming start to his fledgling career. 
Maketa has been making waves internationally after posting one of the world’s leading times in his age group category in South Africa. 
The teenage sprint sensation stopped the clock in an impressive time of 20,95 seconds in the Under-18 200m category on his way to finishing first in the Puma School of Speed race meeting in Pretoria, South Africa, a fortnight ago. 
Maketa, who became Zimbabwe’s new record holder in the Under-18 200m category, also won a sponsorship deal with German sportswear company Puma after the conclusion of the five Puma School of Speed race meetings in South Africa. 
The deal will see Maketa receiving sponsored premium running spikes and the opportunity to join Puma’s ambassador programme. 
Retired world record holder in the 100m and 200m Usain Bolt is the principal director of the Puma School of Speed. 
Maketa, who is inspired by the legendary Bolt, credited hard work and discipline for his success and revealed his desire to reach the highest levels in the sport. 
“It’s all hard work and sheer talent that is in me and I believe if I really concentrate and not get distracted by anything else, I am destined for greatness. I hope will make my college and, of course, my country proud of me in future races,” Maketa told The Sports Hub in an interview. 
“I believe if Usain Bolt and Bill Gates have made it in their lives, what can stop me? I just have a dream that I will leave a mark in this world if I just keep focused. 
Everything needs practice and discipline and ultimately it will be fruitful,” he said. 
Maketa also credits his success to the support he has received from his family and hopes he will repay their support by earning a scholarship to study and further his athletics career in the United States, as he continues his quest to become a world-renowned athlete. 
“The support from my schoolmates and parents has been fantastic and everyone is really eager to know about my results each time I leave for a tournament be it locally or internationally. I can’t ask for more support as I am really on course for something bigger especially a scholarship in the USA, so my parents have been really helpful as they always tell me to be focused,” he added. 
Maketa, who turns 17 in June this year, is currently preparing for the 2018 World U20 Championships to be held in Tampere, Finland, from July 10 to 15. 
This weekend he was scheduled to represent Harare province at the National Association of Secondary Schools Heads provincial Championships at White City Stadium in Bulawayo. 
After the national finals where he is the favourite to win the 100m and 200m races, Maketa will also feature at an inter-schools event next week at Lomagundi College, where the likes of St John’s College, Prince Edward, Kyle College and Peterhouse will also be taking part. 
Speaking to The Sports Hub on the sidelines of the Saints Invitational held at St George’s College last week, the school’s headmaster John Farrelly believes Maketa has all the attributes to become a successful athlete. 
“We hope and pray that the boy remains uninjured and if he does, Usain Bolt’s records will definitely tumble. If the boy remains fit even at the national championships, I don’t see anyone beating him or getting anywhere near his national record,” declared Farrelly. 
Farrelly gave credit to Maketa by describing him as level-headed and on the road to become an all-time college great, citing athletics records he has been breaking since he enrolled at one of the Zimbabwe’s premier schools. 
“Maketa has been strong even during his early days at the school from the Under-14s and Under-15s, but now he has emerged as the finest athlete in Zimbabwe as he continues to break records. 
“He is outstanding and as a college we had a number of amazing athletes over the years, but he is head and shoulders above those and actually if he goes uninjured we have an amazing story to tell to others,” he said.