• 27 March 2018 12:01PM • 
- Three teams - Highlanders, FC Platinum and Ngezi Platinum Stars - maintained their 100 percent record start to the 2018 Castle Lager Premiership season this weekend. 
’s caretaker coach Lizwe Sweswe pointed out that their main goal this season is to defend the title and return to the African Champions League where they bowed out on the first hurdle this year. 
We played well and I am happy we managed to collect three points at home. We have started the season very well and need to push like that,” Sweswe told reporters after the win over Yadah. 
Our target is to defend the title and to do that we need to start the season on a good note.” 
on six points after identical 2-0 wins over Herentals and Triangle in their first two matches. 
’s side got their goals from Clive Augusto and Xolisani Moyo in the victory over the Sugar Sugar Boys. 

It was a very difficult match in terms of the climatic conditions here in the Lowveld; a difficult match in terms of the chances we created and failed to convert,” Ndiraya said. 
I thought we were very much in control of the first half but we failed to put away the chances we created. We created about five or six good scoring chances but again I’m disappointed that we failed to put them away. 
The second half was difficult ... but look my boys fought very hard. We fought very hard; there were some moments when Triangle were in control of the game ...” 
When that happens, it means you are going to be under pressure; we sucked in that pressure quite well.” 
Shabanie coach Takesure Chiragwi over the moon. 
I’m very happy because we are moving forward. This gives us confidence for our game on Friday, the morale now is high; we just have to see how far we can go in our next game,” Chiragwi said. 
What we want to do is finish the season in a respectable position.” 
“Whoever touted us (for the title) should carry on while we concentrate on our game. We have just played two games, combinations are coming up but talking about the championship now is premature,” he said.