Zim marks Theatre Day Lifestyle Writer • 27 March 2018 8:53AM • 0 comments 
HARARE - National Arts Council of Zimbabwe (Nacz) in collaboration with arts associations, arts organisations and promoters has lined up activities throughout Zimbabwe to commemorate three UN Observances falling within a week of each other. 
These being March 20, World Day of Theatre for Children and Young People, March 21, World Poetry Day and March 27, World Theatre Day. 
These days are United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation (Unesco)-proclaimed days of human expressions that are held annually. Zimbabwe will mark World Theatre Day today with the rest of the world. 
The main celebrations in the capital will be held at Theatre in the Park while there will be other activities lined up at the University of Zimbabwe and communities around Harare. 
“The Zimbabwe Centre of the International Theatre Institute, Zimbabwe Theatre Association and the National Arts Council of Zimbabwe therefore encourages all communities to partake in the celebrations that will give communities a sense of togetherness and belonging hence instilling national pride,” a statement by Theatre in the Park reads. 
The activities to celebrate World Poetry Day, support linguistic diversity through poetic expression and in addition offer minority languages the opportunity to be heard within their communities. 
Poetry being part of oral tradition is an expression of diverse shared values and norms that are practiced in communities. 
World Poetry Day is a platform to honour poets, revive oral traditions and promote the reading, writing and teaching of poetry at distinct levels. 
Thereafter, today, World Theatre Day and Assitej Day will be observed. National centres, companies, arts organisations, academics, teachers, artists, practitioners have planned worshops and stage performances in recognition of the crucial role theatre plays in societies as a form of expression. 
It is a day when theatre lovers can converge and celebrate the artistic form that mirrors the society and is a leeway for freedom of expression.