Eric Chiriga • 20 March 2018 12:02PM • 
HARARE 
That’s the crisis for Zimbabwe — a major one, particularly for its new leadership — 
The 75-year-old politician inherited a country hounded by strong negative perception, mostly caused by his predecessor — 
Due to long years of misrule — violation of human rights, lack of respect for property rights, policy inconsistences, and intolerance of the West and other nations, among other wrongs — 
And this long-standing problem, which has blocked many economic opportunities for the desperate and investment-starved country, did not end with Mugabe’ No! 
It lingers. 
And according to Equity Axis — a financial intelligence and research firm, that’s the case for Zimbabwe today still haunted by negative perception. 
Last week, the firm, very qualified to comment on such matters, said “what potential investors are doing is to position themselves and acquaint to opportunities which will only materialise once fundamentals become more favourable 

Interestingly, Equity Axis went on to say Zimbabwe received foreign direct investment (FDI) of just half a billion dollars, a far cry from the $3 billion claimed to have been earned during Mnangagwa 
“For starters, a capital commitment does not equate to actual flows but potential flows and a case for the yesteryear ‘mega deals’ with a similar value are worth noting,” 
This simply means that it’s not a given or guaranteed that Zimbabwe attracts investment because Mugabe — long viewed as the stumbling block to the once prosperous nation’s progress — 
Mnangagwa et al ought to earn the international community’ 
To bolster the argument, last week a respected business weekly quoted Ngoni Mudzamiri, a partner with Ernst & Young, in a story saying exactly the same — 
“Over the last few years, Zimbabwe has been seen as a risky investment destination such that when you try to access loan financing, the interest rates are very high and punitive,” 
“If you look at European companies, they are able to borrow money for as little as three or four percent, sometimes less. Yet our banks, a lot of our institutions, are borrowing at more than 10 percent, he argued. 
He said a reduction of risk would “enable businesses to start performing a lot better 
“If you have an asset and you want to charge a million dollars for it, you may find a foreigner who is only prepared to pay $500 000 because of the perceived risk, he said. 
Now, this means the leadership has a lot of work to do, beyond the “Zimbabwe open for business mantra. 
It needs to win back the lost confidence and trust — convince investors and the international community that they are safe and secure in Zimbabwes hands. 
It needs to walk the talk. 
That’s why there was disappointment over Mnangagwas first 100 days in office. 
Investors and the international community, just like the long-suffering Zimbabweans, want to see and feel the change. 
Most perceive Mnangagwa as just the same as Mugabe fruits from the same poisoned tree.