Tribalism counter developmental, says Mohadi Published: 26 March 2018 VICE-PRESIDENT Kembo Mohadi has implored Zimbabweans across the country to embrace each other and shun tribalism as it was counter-development.Speaking at the Bulawayo Investment Conference held in the city on Friday, Mohadi said Zimbabweans should not discriminate each other along tribal lines."Dialogue is key to the development of new knowledge for innovation in business and commerce. Therefore, without this dialogue, without this exchange of ideas just forget about development," he said."So, we need to dialogue across the board regardless of whether you belong to a different political party or different political dispensation. Zimbabwe comes first. The economy of Zimbabwe comes first. So forget about your political affiliations and then fight to improve the livelihoods of your people," he said.Mohadi said Zimbabweans should be proud of their identity and stop looking down upon themselves."You are Zimbabwean first before you become people of Matabeleland, people of Mashonaland or people of any other region. You are Zimbabweans first. So Zimbabwe is a denominator, be proud. When they ask you don't be like the people I know from East Africa, who say I am so and so, I am such and such by tribe. No, let's not do that," he said."I said we would want to walk the talk. I belong to no tribe, hence, there are very few languages that I don't speak in Southern Africa because I have got to be accommodated and I have got to accommodate other people."But if you have got a barrier of not understanding other people then you are not going to appreciate other cultures or the way other people do things, then you become myopic. So open up as we open Zimbabwe for business. Let your mind be opened. Open up, interact and dialogue," he said.Mohadi said Zimbabwe had been isolated for too long and it was high time to open for business.He said impediments that were hindering the ease of doing business had been removed, so investors should come into the country.Mohadi said if they failed to deliver as leaders, citizens had a right to vote them out of power."If we don't do right, you have got the right to chuck us out," he said.Mohadi urged Bulawayo City Council to offer investors more incentives."It is only through incentives that you attract investors. Without incentives forget about attracting investment," he said.Mohadi encouraged dialogue to continue as it encouraged development. - newsday