No Comments 
Zimbabwe’s cities have the capacity to build smart cities provided quality of data is high, a Huawei official has said. 
Huawei Zimbabwe Public Relations Manager Lightman Lai told TechnoMag last week that cities like Harare can be turned to smart cities. A smart city is an urban area that uses different types of electronic data collection sensors to supply information which is used to manage assets and resources efficiently 
“I believe so. That is the future vision for you and I and both of our efforts to do that. For a smart city solution, this requires the very readiness of the ecosystem. 
“The first stage for smart city is safe city. Safe city is the infrastructure. The first one is connect, collate, the third one is comprehend and the last one is create a better life for the Zimbabwean people,” he said. 
Lai added that Zimbabwean government has made great strides in improving connectivity. 
“We have to take the connectivity so far after the five years of investment by the Zimbabwean government for the infrastructure , NetOne, TelOne, now you can feel the ICT and network quality is much better in terms of data and voice,” said the Huawei official. 
He however said much needs to be done to connect the rural areas. 
“But this is not enough, we still have many people in the rural areas who have not enjoyed connectivity,” said Lai. 
Zimbabwe does not have a digital national ID system which could help solve a number of crimes. 
“For safe city, we don’t have the digital national ID system in Zimbabwe. As you saw in the video, you have to match the database where he is. So I think that is the fundamental we need to initiate. After that we need to have the surveillance system. With this you can tell whether someone is going to break into a house, a going to have an accident,” said Lai. 
The company is keen on providing technical expertise for the Smart City project. 
“Huawei is definitely winning to make Harare a smart city. From a technical perspective, we are willing to share our wisdom of the successful case we have in China, Kenya and other countries globally. To teach you how to deploy from a technical perspective. To tell you who should play the leading role, in this case, the Government. ,” said Lai. 
