Mliswa hails Mnangagwa Published: 24 hours ago PRESIDENT Mnangagwa has delivered on his promise of free and fair elections as evidenced by the free manner opposition political parties like MDC Alliance have been holding incident-free rallies throughout the country, Norton legislator Mr Temba Mliswa has said.This put to rests claims by the MDC Alliance of an uneven playing field.Under the Robert Mugabe regime, opposition political parties found it difficult to campaign in rural areas like Chiweshe and Murehwa, but the MDC Alliance has already been in these places.In an interview with eNCA of South Africa on Monday night, Mr Mliswa said: "I think Nelson Chamisa is doing very well in trying to attract voters for MDC and his ascendancy to power is through the ballot."It will have to be free, fair and credible elections. So far he is penetrating into the zanu-pf strongholds, into rural areas without any violence. So the President's statement on ensuring that the elections remain free, fair and credible are a testimony of what is happening."It's up to the opposition now to be able to come up with the challenge and see how they can get zanu-pf out of power."He dismissed claims by some members of the G40 cabal and Mr Mugabe that the 94-year-old former President was removed from office via a coup."There was no coup in Zimbabwe. The former President was impeached in Parliament . . . So at no point was there a coup. He resigned," said Mr Mliswa.He saluted President Mnangagwa for his tireless efforts to revamp the economy."I think the 100-day period that he has set himself, it is now time to evaluate on what ministers have done in terms of implementation and I think he has gone around the world trying to portray a proper image of Zimbabwe."That is quite critical in attracting Foreign Direct Investment because Zimbabwe had been isolated for a very long time. As a legislator, I have to support the Government of the day."I have to support the President of the day and it is important that we do not create parallel structures."I have the mandate from the people to work with the Government and as a result he is the chief executive of the Republic of Zimbabwe. I cannot deviate from that as a legislator," said Mr Mliswa."It is because he has come up and has certainly brought in something which was lacking. He listens to the people. He is able to talk to everyone."He is meeting everybody across the political divide."I am an independent Member of Parliament and I chair a Portfolio Committee on Mines and Energy, which is supposed to be chaired by somebody from a political party. That goes to say how much he is willing to get everybody involved in terms of the governance of the country regardless of which party you belong."It is the first in Zimbabwe Parliament were an independent Member of Parliament chairs a Portfolio Committee of Mines and Energy, which is something is which supposed to go to a party."Mr Mliswa repeated that he was not rejoining zanu-pf."No I think I support the President in his ways and I think you do not have to belong to a party to support the good governance of any leader. It is about leadership. It is about the right things being done," he said."What we want is democracy at its best and for the country to move forward from the former President Mugabe's dispensation where we were isolated."We were in a container which he felt like opening whenever he felt like it and Zimbabweans have learnt their lessons . . ."Mr Mliswa urged President Mnangagwa to ruthlessly deal with corruption. - the herald