- March 20, 2018 Lyod Mutasa 
DYNAMOS coach Lloyd Mutasa was yesterday full of praise for his charges despite the loss in their opening Castle Lager Premier Soccer League match against Chicken Inn at Barbourfields Stadium on Saturday. 
BY FORTUNE MBELE 
Obadiah Tarumbwa scored the only goal for the hosts, who have proved a bogey side for the Harare giants in the recent past. 
The veteran striker easily pushed the ball past goalkeeper Blessing Mwandimutsira from a George Majika cross in the second half in a move that also involved right-back Passmore Bernard. 
“We are an institution that believes that a game of football is over after 90 minutes and I could see it from the youngsters they gave it their all to the death and I applaud them for that and with God’s grace, one day, it will be ours,” Mutasa said. 
Mutasa believes the result could have been different had referee Nduna Nkosana blown his whistle in the build-up to the goal for a foul on his defender Marshal Machazane, whom he thought was impeded as he tried to clear the danger. 
“It was a deliberate push on Machazane who went on to lose the ball. So, for me, it was a foul and the goal shouldn’t have stood. That (mistake by the referee) made a huge difference and also our inability to score made matters even worse. But such is football.” 
It was always going to be difficult for Dynamos to get the goals as they were missing their main striker Christian Ntouba, who refused to travel to Bulawayo in protest over unpaid fees. 
The Cameroonian is owed $16 000, which includes part of his signing-on fees and unpaid allowances from last season. 
He missed training last week to force the team to come to the negotiating table, but after the club management failed to provide a clear payment plan, Ntouba decided to take the radical stance. 
In his absence, Mutasa picked Tawanda Macheke to lead his line. 
The young striker, to his credit, was impressive, as he troubled the Chicken Inn central defence. 
It was his trickery and direct play that earned Simon Munawa and Moses Jackson cautions and he had a good chance to score in the secondhalf, but his shot was blocked. The biggest letdown for Mutasa and Dynamos was the performance of club captain Ocean Mushure, who once again failed to sparkle, as he has been for the team throughout the pre-season period. 
He was replaced by Valentine Kadonzvo, while Obey Mwerahari also came in for young Kudzanai Dhemere. 
New signing Raphael Manuvire also failed to live up to his billing and was substituted for Quality Kangadze, as Mutasa looked for an equaliser, which, however, never came. Mutasa will be looking for a response when his team host Shabanie Mine in their next league match. 
The Zvishavane-based side are going into the match with their tails up after their opening weekend win over Triangle. Related posts: