Homepage » Economy » I Always Laugh Out Loud When People Talk About How Rich Our Country Is I Always Laugh Out Loud When People Talk About How Rich Our Country Is Posted by Guest Author ( @techzim ) Read 3 Comments 
This is a Guest Post and does not necessarily reflect the thoughts and opinions of Techzim. We have a strong filtering process of what makes it to our blog and are confident that you’ll enjoy the article below. 
I always laugh out loud when people talk about how rich our country is. There is always that talk about the diamonds, about the platinum in the Great Dyke belt, the black granite in Mutoko, the coal in Hwange and the rich and fertile lands . Yes we all agree and have to be grateful for the natural resources God have blessed us with as a country. 
Human capital is diamond. 
What is peculiar however, are the low numbers of people who cite human capital that the country is currently sitting on. Investopedia defines human capital as knowledge, skill sets and motivation people have, which provides economic value. Human capital has been underestimated and underused to such an extent that it has slowed economic growth. 
While there are a lot of colleges, universities and schools which release a lot of graduates from the system, it is quite sad that the majority find themselves stranded with nothing to do after leaving school. The economy is in such a bad state making it difficult for the majority to find any formal work. So should the young children all leave Zimbabwe for greener pastures? Should we wait for a new Government that can change the economic fortunes? Or should we just accept our fate and cry. Advertisement 
At the turn of the decade there was a slogan that Prof Moyo always prided himself in “Land is the economy and economy is the land. “It was understandable what it meant during those days but as the years progressed we came to know that human capital was fundamental, because the land did not produce crops on its own. The more we experimented with various agricultural models during that time the more we got better. 
Agricultural production is still below what we expect but the country can now harvest enough maize for its consumption and tobacco farming is getting better with each year. This shows how a motivated human capital which initially lacked some skill set can make a difference in the economy. 
One area that we have failed dismally is that of industrial manufacturing. Despite the fact that we have a large pool of engineers, technicians and artisans we still produce little products on the market. For instance why should we not use our human capital to improve our livelihood? Why should someone staying in Kariba for instance buy candles when the sun shines the whole day? We surely have the human capital to manufacture low cost solar jar lights at competitive prices. 
Why should the already sick person waiting to be attended in a district hospital be subjected to intense heat in summer yet as a country we can easily make solar cooling fans. This can even be extended to individual households. 
Transport is also a big problem especially in the rural areas. Children and adults alike have to travel long distances either to get to school or the nearest shops. How about if we started to assemble our own bicycles with a small motor? Just a small company that will solder bicycles safety lights can make a difference for a few families. Government could come with a subsidy, remove import duty for the components to make it affordable to the majority. 
We could go on and on about how our human capital with the Government assistance can stimulate economic growth. Once we start making our own products the multiplier effects are amazing. More jobs, more tax for the Government, more consumer expenditure etc. 
That is why it is critical as a nation to give the children a good head start by encouraging them to be creative be it with toys, wires and soil. Government must as a matter of urgency have a deliberate plan that should encourage industrial production by improving the skillset of its citizens and funding promising ventures by citizens. Zimbabwe can no longer afford to wait for foreign investors. As William Arthur Ward said “Opportunities are like sunrises. If we wait too long you miss them.” 

Ndangariro Maketiwa is a passionate lover of Electronics and runs an online electronic component Shop. 

Hwange is a Town located in Matabeleland North Province in Zimbabwe. Read More About Hwange 
Mutoko is a Town located in Mashonaland East Province in Zimbabwe. Read More About Mutoko 
Kariba is a town located in the Zambezi Valley Mashonaland West Province in Zimbabwe. Kariba town offers accommodation for tourists who visit the Kariba dam. The town also houses the hydroelectric power station, Zimbabwe Power Company. Read More About Kariba share