No Comments 
POWERTEL , a wholly-owned technological wing of Zesa Holdings, has launched its services in Kariba as part of its 100-day rapid results initiative target. 
The company’s marketing manager Prosper Mutswiri has expressed optimism that the services will address the demands of the Kariba market. 
“The launch is a timely response to the call by the Kariba market which has been longing to see our services available there. 
“We are thus very optimistic of the rapid adoption of the services,” said Mr Mutswiri. The Kariba launch comes at a time when Powertel recently launched a number of new services that include ‘internet of things, and fleet-based management servic e. 
Critically, the launch coincides with the commissioning of the Kariba South extension by President Mnangagwa today. 
“There is so much excitement here in Kariba now that Powertel comes with affordable telecommunications services that are beyond the usual bundles,” said a Kariba businessman. 
Powertel launched the mobile services with a promotion dubbed, “Pay less for more”, where customers taking up the services will benefit from double the value of money. There was an electric atmosphere during the Powertel roadshow. 
Local businesses and other key customers were entertained during lunch and a cocktail held by Powertel in the resort town. 
Speaking during the cocktail, Powertel’s Kariba branch account manager, Netsai Toriro, invited all local dealers with a desire to distribute the business’s services to register and start benefiting from the opportunities created. 
The services launched ranged from consumer-facing services that include mobile voice, data and modems. 
Corporate services that were also launched include virtual private network, business internet services and carrier services. 
The services are targeted at local business operators, hotels, lodges and residents. Powertel also supports the country’s electricity grid system by connecting Zesa’s power stations. 
The company is a licensed converged telecommunications operator which is mandated with providing total ICT solutions to Zesa Holdings and the rest of the country. 
Powertel has a Class A internet access provider license and provides several services that include virtual private network services and remote access connectivity; internet service provision( wholesale, business and mobile); seamless branch to branch connectivity, 08611 Voice solutions (fixed and mobile available as voice over internet protocol (VoIP); aggregation services (Powerplus prepaid electricity), internet of things and professional services. 
The company has invested in over 10 000 combined kilometres of fibre across the country with presence in most major towns and cities. 
Powertel has earned itself the nickname, ‘Carrier of carriers’ in the market due to its experience in fibre installations and management. 
It also made a name for itself for its role in prepaid electricity which has resulted in guaranteed revenue for the power utility. 
To date, over 96 percent of the prepaid electricity revenue is now being accounted for through the Powerplus e-vending system. 
The service is now available on various platforms which include over-the-counter, point-of-sale, electronic, mobile platforms and other digital platforms. 
This article was first published in The Herald 