Mnangagwa buckles to pressure Fungi Kwaramba • 28 March 2018 10:02AM • 12 comments 
HARARE - Stung by stringent conditions set by the United States government before it could lift sanctions on Zimbabwe, President Emmerson Mnangagwa's administration has buckled to pressure by taking steps towards ending isolation by the world's most powerful nation. 
  United-States-of-America Comments (12) 
You could either deliver the paper to the different areas where your readers are based or you coud get your finger out of your arrogant bums and post the whle story online. The whole point of an online edition is for your readers to read the article, not decide if tey should then proceed to get a paper copy. Is this arrogance or incompetence? Why are you not publishing the full story online? Why even publish the headline in the first place, if this is meant for people to read? Are you aware you have a readership in the diaspora, with no access to paper copies. Do you know how many people have lost faith with your editorship and browse news elsewhere coz of it? This attitude is why Zimbabwe is in the doldrums, laziness kupela. No other explanation why this practice is limited to DNZ. omuhle - 28 March 2018 
Its true bra...it defies the logic of being on line you have become another moniker, "The Robbers and Muggers"indeed. Clemence Tashaya - 28 March 2018 
Comment by umuhle is spot op.Why puplish it if its not complete General - 28 March 2018 
I wont buy a hard copy Simba - 28 March 2018 
Who would pay for that crap. dzom - 28 March 2018 
@omuhle right on the money. I don't understand the logic at ANZ. Moe Syslack - 28 March 2018 
Online business is about global entrepreneurs who should make their content available to the world instead of being worried about bond notes that you can't even use outside Zimbabwe Cletus Murenzvi - 28 March 2018 
Should be pushing your online edition over your print version. Online is where the majority of your future revenue lies, like it or not. Never fight change or risk falling behind, that said no way will I buy your print version for $1 when i can get 250mb worth of data for the same price which is more than enough to for me to read news and have extra left over data for me to download my one or two favourite music tracks. Richard Freemantle - 28 March 2018 
I HAVE SINCE STOPPED BUYING PAPER BECOZ THIS ARROGANCE dennis moto - 28 March 2018 
Daily rubbish Sam - 28 March 2018 
Mnangagwa buckles to pressure ??? How can correcting inhuman policies and doings be seen as buckling to pressure? I am lost will the editor of this paper help me out? Asante sana. Mukariba - 29 March 2018 
If u don't have a full story, at least post it online for people in the diaspora to read as soon as the paper is out. Reetch - 29 March 2018