Khupe, Chamisa fight over party name Blessings Mashaya • 29 March 2018 4:48PM • 0 comments 
HARARE - Two rival camps of the MDC led by Nelson Chamisa and Thokozani Khupe have clashed over ownership of the party name and symbols. 
MDC-T is our name and is our own property. We have past experience on this issue, some tried to do it previously and you know what happened. We are going to approach the courts when the right time comes,” Komichi said. 
’s camp is not bothered. 
’s spokesperson, Obert Gutu, yesterday rubbished Komichi’s threats, saying Khupe remains the MDC’s rightful leader. 
Acting president … Khupe is the rightful, lawful, legitimate and indeed, constitutional acting president of the MDC-T until such a time that an extraordinary congress is held to elect a new substantive president of the party,” said Gutu. 
That is the correct legal and factual position and indeed, all relevant political and electoral stakeholders have since been accordingly informed. No one is going to stop us from using the name MDC-T. We are not at all worried by uninformed and angry shrill voices crying from certain desperate corners. We are on a roll. We are not looking back. There is absolutely neither retreat nor surrender.” 
’s highest decision-making body in-between congresses, had ordered Khupe to reach out and make peace with Chamisa, whom it elected to lead the party following the death of Morgan Tsvangirai last month. 
’s founding father, there has been a vicious power struggle in the opposition movement to succeed him. 
’s national council last month, Khupe and her allies have pooh-poohed the whole process as they also laid claim to the throne left vacant following the death of Tsvangirai from colon cancer. 
’s presidential candidate, insisting that constitutionally, she was the party leader until congress elects Tsvangirai’s successor. 
’s gripe with the goings-on in the MDC started long before Chamisa’s ascendancy to the hot seat. 
’s former national chairperson Lovemore Moyo were at the centre of resisting Tsvangirai’s spirited attempts to ensure that the country’s fragmented opposition parties face Zanu PF at the elections as a united force. 
’s headquarters in Bulawayo. 
’s alleged dictatorial tendencies after he unilaterally formed the MDC Alliance without consulting the MDC leadership. 
’s burial at his rural home at Humanikwa Village in Buhera, Khupe, Bhebhe and Gutu had to seek refuge in a hut at the late former prime minister’s homestead after some youths charged at and assaulted them. 
’s vehicle was vandalised while her personal assistant Witness Dube was badly injured after violent scenes broke out at the party’s provincial offices in Bulawayo last month. 
— which was attended by Gutu and Bhebhe — to endorse her as the acting MDC president despite the fact that the party had long settled for Chamisa. 
’s largest opposition party mark the third split of the original MDC, formed in 1999.