By newsday - March 30, 2018 
DYNAMOS’ slumped to a second defeat in three matches after they were beaten by Ngezi Platinum Stars at Baobab Stadium in Mhondoro-Ngezi yesterday. 
BY HENRY MHARA 
Ngezi Platinum . . . . (1) 1 Dynamos . . . . . . . . . (0) 0 
Following their three-all draw against Shabanie Mine at the weekend, a result that followed a 1-0 defeat to Chicken Inn in their season opener, the Glamour Boys needed to respond with a positive result in this one. 
However, they yet again produced a below par performance. 
Xolosani Ncube’s 11th minute goal, connecting home from a Michael Charamba cross, was all that Ngezi needed to maintain their perfect start to the season, with three wins out of three. 
Dynamos coach, Lloyd Mutasa, who missed the team’s thrilling draw at the weekend is still hopeful that his side will soon get to winning ways. 
Winning coach Tonderai Ndiraya couldn’t be any happier. 
The former Dynamos coach is targeting to collect maximum points in the first five matches. 
Both teams had made changes to their starting line-ups from their last matches. 
Goalscorer Moyo replaced Tichaona Mabvura, while Terrence Dzvukamanja took Malon Mushonga’s place. 
For Dynamos, goalkeeper Blessing Mwandimutsira, defenders Marshall Machazane and Romario Matova, culpable in the mistakes that led to the three goals last week, paid the price as they were all benched. 
They were replaced by Tonderai Mateyaunga, Godfrey Mukambi and captain Ocean Mushure. 
James Marufu, who was offloaded by Ngezi, started for Dynamos against his former side in midfield. 
Despite the changes at the back for Dynamos the defensive frailties were still apparent, with the backline failing to deal with balls from set pieces. 
Ngezi had enjoyed three headers in the opening five minutes, and they deservedly took the lead were Charamba laid the ball to an unmarked Moyo inside the box. Walter Mukanga could have made it two immediately, but skied his effort over the bar. 
Things got heated up soon after Jimmy Tigere and Clive Augusto got tangled up and a few punches were exchanged. 
The two were lucky to escape with no caution, and it was Raphael Manuvire and Moyo who were shown yellows for their involvement in the melee. 
When calm was restored, Ngezi continued with their onslaught on DeMbare, with Mateyaunga producing a smart one-hand save to deny Dzvukamanja. 
Dynamos had looked off colour this far, and so ordinary were the visitors in the opening half that they failed to fashion a single shot on target. 
It took the Harare giants 72 minutes to get a shot on target, their first attempt on goal, when Quality Kangadze flicked the ball onto the path of substitute Tawanda Macheke, who fired straight into the hands of goalkeeper Donovan. 
To their credit though, they improved greatly in the second half although they failed to threaten the Ngezi goal. 
A chance to respond to the latest setback comes quickly for Dynamos as they host Highlanders on Monday, while Ngezi will be looking to continue with their good start with a trip to promoted Nichruit 
Teams: 
Ngezi Platinum: B Donavan, G Murwira, L Chakoroma, K Murera, T Dzvukamanja (T Mabvura, 86′), W Mukanga (M Mushonga, 83′), T Chipunza, M Charamba, X Moyo, F Mukarati, C Augusto 
Dynamos: T Mateyaunga, B Moyo, O Mushure, G Mukambi, J Tigere, J Marufu, K Dhemere (T Macheke, 50′), R Manuvire, C Kapupurika (O Mwerahari, 50′), V Kadonzvo (K Kumwala, 70′), Q Kangadze Related posts: