PREMIER Soccer League boss, Keni Mubaiwa has added to Zifa president, Philip Chiyangwa’s woes by declining to be co-opted into the football governing body’s Executive Committee. 
BY DANIEL NHAKANISO 
Mubaiwa had been hurriedly co-opted into the Zifa board together with women’s football chairperson, Rosemary Kanonge after two of the association’s board members Piraishe Mabhena and Felton Kamambo stepped down on Wednesday, a development that meant the whole board was automatically dissolved. 
The Dynamos boss – a perceived ally of Chiyangwa – was expected to throw his weight behind the Zifa boss, but twisted in the knife, saying his co-option, was null and void unless it received the support of the PSL board of governors. 
In a letter addressed to the Zifa general-secretary, Joseph Mamutse, yesterday, Mubaiwa said his co-option was not done in accordance with PSL statues. 
“I acknowledge receipt and thank you for your letter dated March 28, 2018,” he wrote. 
“Please be advised that I’m unable to accept the co-option into the Zifa executive committee, should the PSL board of governors agree to convene a special congress and unanimously resolve that I accept the appointment. 
“I thank you for your consideration,” the letter, copied to Chiyangwa, the PSL emergency committee and its board of governors read. 
The Dynamos boss was appointed as chairman of the PSL emergency committee following the suspension of ex-Highlanders, boss Peter Dube over alleged misconduct. 
Chiyangwa was desperate for Mubaiwa to accept his co-option to the Zifa board as Mabhena and Kamambo’s resignations meant the football governing body did not have the required quorum to run sport. 
The duo’s resignation came a day before the term of office for the current Zifa board was expected to elapse, effectively meaning Chiyangwa ceased to be the Zifa president despite his insistence that his board has the mandate to continue beyond the March 29. 
Chiyangwa and some members of his board have been accused of deliberately dithering over the association’s election roadmap in order to prolong their stay. 
Prior to the duo’s resignations the Zifa executive committee was operating with five members, following the death of former Warriors player Edzai Kasinauyo last year, while the PSL and women football seats in the board remained vacant. 
According to the Zifa constitution, when 50% of the posts in the executive committee become vacant, the general secretary automatically takes over the reins and arranges for elections within two months. 
The Sport and Recreation Commission (SRC) has already expressed its displeasure to Zifa, who in response made overtures to world football governing body Fifa seeking an extension to their term of office beyond March 29. Related posts: