Posted in: Leader Page , Slideshow 
Gibson Mhaka AN incensed traditional healer threatened to use supernatural means to “fix” his ex-lover who allegedly stole his money amounting to $1 500 and spent it with her new lover. 
Robert Soraidema said when his ex-lover Siphathisiwe Mlelo from Ntabazinduna area under Chief Khayisa unceremoniously dumped him; she took away his money made from healing people. 
Soraidema threatened to deal with his former lover through supernatural means after she won a court battle in which she was suing him (Soraidema) for disturbing her peace. 
This was after Mlelo had approached the Bulawayo Civil Court accusing him of constantly abusing her as punishment for dumping him. 
“Robert Soraidema is my ex-lover. We have been cohabiting since 2016 and we separated in October 2017. Robert has a tendency of coming to my place to harass me, the latest incident being in December when he tried to stab me with a knife and ran away. I reported him to the police who warned and cautioned him. 
“Each time he comes to harass me together with my family he jumps our locked gate before forcing himself into the house. His conduct is disturbing my peace and I want the court to bar him from coming to my place and communicate with me,” begged Mlelo. 
In response, Soraidema refuted his ex-lover’s accusations before accusing her of stealing his money to entertain her new lover. 
“It is not true that I am harassing her. She stole my money ($1 500) and ran away to spend it with another man. Her application for a protection order is just a way of stopping me from pursuing her over my money. 
“As a traditional healer I assisted a lot of people and some pay me with household property and as a way of also fixing me she destroyed some of the property which was at her place for safekeeping. If she doesn’t want me to visit her or communicate with her she should give me back my money or risk courting the anger of my ancestors,” charged Soraidema. 
His threats did not, however, deter the presiding magistrate Tinashe Tashaya from ordering him not to verbally, physically and emotionally abuse his ex-lover and also not to visit her residence and communicate with her in any way. 
The magistrate also advised Soraidema to approach the civil court if he wanted to recover his money from Mlelo. 
Soraidema who seemed to have been incensed with the ruling, charged at Mlelo saying as a traditional healer he was warning her of dire consequences if she failed to pay him back his money.