Nhlalwenhle Ncube 
HAPPY Easter! 
It is always a good thing to get feedback from readers of this column and thanks to the women who opened up saying they cannot perform other positions in bed except for the missionary one. 
Although I have always encouraged women to explore, it is now time to consider these ones and share tips on how best to enjoy the missionary position and also reach the big O. 
Some people may not understand why someone would stick to one position when there are lots of them, but people are different and for some it’s due to circumstances beyond their control. One woman said her husband does not want to hear of anything besides the missionary position. 
I discovered something interesting while I was chatting with my girls at one of our tea parties, apparently most women enjoy the missionary position in bed but the interesting part is that most don’t reach the big ‘O’ when they go missionary! 
One should not just lie flat, but there is a lot to do during the game when doing the missionary position! 
The missionary position is a man superior position where the woman lies on her back with her legs spread. Her partner climbs between her legs and penetrates her womanhood. 
Partners face each other while engaging in the missionary position. Many view this position as the traditional position for sex. The more sexually adventurous often view the missionary position as boring. 
This position is a tried and tested stance that is used as a good old standard. But let’s face it ladies with that position you all know what to expect and there is no adventure in that so let’s spice up the adult game by surprising your partner with new inventive ideas that will blow both your minds away. 
I laughed when one of my friends shared with me that her man is now crazy about the ‘ita se’unononga’ position loosely translated as ‘act like you are picking something’. Apparently most men enjoy this stance because of the sight they are privileged to view from the rear. 
Ladies you’d be happy to know that if your man is coming from behind even your cookie jar feels a little tighter than usual, I promise you ladies this will make it feel like your first time, only better. 
Another good thing about this position is that it also allows you to explore other places besides the traditional bed. I assure you men love other places that are not beds and even when you want to have a quickie in the bathroom before you go to work this will be your ideal style. 
Then someone told me about the Jack Hammer, ladies the name says it all. Even the lazy ones would love this one. You just need to lie on your back with a leg on each of your partners’ shoulders. It would be wise to make sure that you are flexible and are prepared to stretch a bit and then just leave the rest to your partner and allow him to ravish you. 
Then there is of course the seated scissors! This is an interesting one ladies. With the man laying flat on his back and his knees bent, the woman sits astride on top of him with one leg to the side of his hip, and the other leg between his legs. The woman can then find just the right spot to grind against his pubic bone with him inside her. That way ladies you can control the pace, the depth, and the amount of pressure and friction you will receive. This is definitely a prescription for mind-blowing intercourse! 
If your man does not know how to do other things besides just lying on you every time it’s all up to you to teach him, there is no shame in that! There is nothing wrong with a woman taking control and most men would actually be turned on by this. You could even ride him like you are riding a bull if you like, be on top, show him who is in charge. 
If there are so many different things you can do besides missionary, why do we love missionary so much? It’s probably not because we’re lazy. For many, it’s associated with ‘making love’ and we’ll sacrifice an orgasm to feel connected with our partners. 
Whatsapp your comments to 0712978471