Posted in: Leader Page , Slideshow 
Danisa Masuku IT’S Tuesday as we leave for Ngozi Mine dumpsite, a squatter camp on the outskirts of Bulawayo’s western suburbs for routine news checks and we are in for a surprise. 
On arrival the news crew encounters an intimidating atmosphere — seeing men with wrinkled faces with that “third degree” look asking what on earth are we doing in their haven. 
A man in his mid 20s greeted the crew, a sign of welcoming us as we asked to meet the local leadership led by Gideon Tshuma the chairman. 
However, he was not around but a female committee member Sikhumbuzo Sibanda who spoke to us emphasized that although she had misgivings about journalists people should know their (squatters’) predicament. 
“We are normal people and we did not choose to be in this terrible situation,” she said. 
B-Metro got wind that Ngozi Mine is not a place for widows. If one loses their husband within a short period of a month they are married off to another man who would be waiting for a wife. 
The issue being above Sibanda’s pay grade we were compelled to call Tshuma on his mobile phone for clearance. 
“Yes there is an issue like that. There are women who after their men pass on move on to marry another man. This is a normal thing here because most of them (women) would be co-habiting and they have nothing to lose but they want to enjoy life,” he said over the phone. Gideon Tshuma 
With Tshuma’s blessings the news crew located a few women who, although hostile, agreed to speak about how they had moved from one man to another. 
“This is a temporary place so with that in mind everything we do is temporary. When I fall in love with a man it’s for a short period. I’m doing my business of selling scrap metal and other things. After I gather enough money I will leave and start a proper life somewhere,” said one woman. 
She has been at the place for eight months. She met a man (name not given) when she arrived and he died two months ago. 
Another woman who only identified herself as Noma did not waste time mourning her husband. Within weeks she had moved on to her current husband. 
“There was no reason to mourn for a long time because I didn’t know his relatives. I discovered that my late husband had a wife and children back in his rural home Gokwe,” she said. 
Musa Mhlanga (45) a mother of three arrived at Ngozi Mine 18 years ago after the death of her husband. They had a child who is now 25 years old. While at Ngozi Mine she had three children with two men. 
“My current husband is a scrap metal dealer and gold panner. We started staying together in 2008. So I have had two men at this place,” she said. 
A male source at the dumpsite claims that the kind of lives the women exposed themselves to was because of past crimes that made it impossible for them to join conventional communities. Therefore, they married other criminals also in hiding. 
“When they come here they hook up with other criminals and set up homes. But when that man dies they fall in love with another man,” the source said.