Posted in: Football , Sport 
Fungai Muderere INJURED Bulawayo City fullback Morris Kadzola, who sustained a fracture on his ankle has been ruled out of action for the next 12 weeks B Metro Sport has learnt. 
Kadzola was injured during his club’s season opener against Chapungu at Luveve Stadium. A brace by Ishmael Wadi saw Bulawayo City open their Castle Lager Premier league campaign with a win. 
“Morris will be out for about 12 weeks. He suffered a fracture on his ankle during our game against Chapungu. 
However, our team doctors are still assessing him and there is a possibility that he might go for surgery. Currently, he has a plaster that was moulded around his injured ankle,” said Bulawayo City public relations officer Thandiwe Moyo. 
Just like grounded Caps United skipper Hardlife Zvirekwi, Kadzola will have to overcome the pain and trauma of being on the sidelines for long. 
Kadzola is a seasoned footballer who previously turned out for former champions Dynamos and the now defunct How Mine. 
“It really hurts to be ruled out for such a long period. I would have loved to play for the team in every match this season. I will bounce back stronger,” said Kadzola. 
Everything being equal, the player will start kicking the ball in Week 15 of the Premier Soccer League when City will do battle against Yadah FC at Barbourfields Stadium. 
The injury will see the player miss his club’s first half league matches against Bulawayo Chiefs (home), FC Platinum (away), Black Rhinos (home) Herentals (away), Triangle (home), Dynamos (away) Nichrut (home), Chicken Inn (away), Shabanie Mine (home), Ngezi Platinum Stars (away), Highlanders (home) and ZPC Kariba (away). 
Last season, Bulawayo City captain Zibusiso “Mzimara” Sibanda was admitted to Mpilo Central Hospital after suffering a serious injury during his side’s Castle Lager Premiership match against Ngezi Platinum Stars at Barbourfields Stadium. 
Sibanda and his then centre back partner, Nyasha Mukumbi both went after the same high ball late in the match and the skipper came out worse in the clash of heads. He was whisked off to hospital in an ambulance after receiving medical attention from both sets of team physicians alongside Mukumbi who was able to complete the 90 minutes.