Otis Ngwabi back in the studio   Tuesday, Mar 27, 2018 | 1027 views 
Allan Foti 
BULAWAYO-born crooner, Otis Ngwabi now based in South Africa is back in the studio cooking up new heat. 
Ngwabi is working with the producer-pair of Banele Dala Moyo and Nathi Ngcobo on an as yet unnamed third studio album which is being recorded at Dolce Studios under East London record label, Niche Elements. 
The crooner has already recorded nine tracks off the album which is for release at the end of June and is confident that it will rock the socks off all lovers of soul music. He said tracks off the album have been ‘inspired by what has been happening around Otis Ngwabi’ in recent years. 
He said the album is a reflection of his emotions and experiences as the melodies that permeate his sense every day of his life. 
“This is a special album for me,” says Ngwabi. 
“I connected with two of my favourite producers, Banele Dala Moyo and Nathi Ngcobo, and I believe they are on the way to producing my most career-defining record to date. We have already recorded nine tracks with each song taking about two weeks to work on. We arranged and re-arranged the songs until they felt right,” the crooner told Sunday Life from East London. 
“We are recording in East London at Dolce Studios which is under Niche Elements record label. In believe we have been able to really focus on creating a special sound that all lovers of soul music will feel all the way to their hearts. I’m really proud of this album. I think it’s a must have for R&B and soul lovers,” he added. 
Ngwabi said he was especially happy with Themba kuwe, KoNtuthu, and Molo, revealing that he is yet to name the rest. The Bulawayo lad said KoNtuthu and Molo will soon be available for free download. 
A man whose love for soul music and his guitar has failed to make him a household name in Zimbabwe, Ngwabi said after the album is released, he would be heading back home for a ‘big’ launch party that will also feature several local acts. He said he is also in talks with South African video producers to work on videos for tracks off the new album. 
Ngwabi conceded that his time in South Africa has also enabled him to grow as an artist after meeting and working with players in the South African music industry. 
Ngwabi’s last formal studio album was 2008’s Zulu Zulu which followed his earlier work released Inkondlo zothando which was released in 2002. 
@AllanFoti