Homepage » Broadband » Following ‘Disappearing Data’ Troubles, Econet Subscribers Can Now Track Their Data Usage Following ‘Disappearing Data’ Troubles, Econet Subscribers Can Now Track Their Data Usage Posted 
Following Econet’s not-so-distant scuffles with customers over disappearing data , it seems they are launching a data tracking service called My Web Self-Care. How does the service work 
If you have ever used the ZOL Fibroniks portal you will instantly feel at home using My Web Self Care’s portal. When you log into the site you will be prompted to login or sign-up. I went via the sign-up route and entered the required information. 
After not reading the terms and conditions (though, I advise you to do so), I was logged into the portal service and presented with information relating to my: Balance, Remaining Data and Package use detail. Package use detail is not as self-explanatory as the other two but it allows you to check how many SMS’s or call minutes are left in your SMS or Voice packages. You can check out some of the screenshots below to get an idea of what the portal will look like Don’t mind the notifications Not entirely sure about the English here, but oh well 
I tested the portal service on Chrome and I’m not sure if it works on Opera Mini yet. I wrote an article on why I was moving away from Opera Mini a few weeks ago and because I am a man of my word, I haven’t used it since. If you are on Opera Mini it would be great if you could register and then share your experience in the comments down below. Some arguments will be settled once and for all! 
The ‘ Econet inoba data ( Econet steals data ) ’ crew will now have a way to truly monitor and regulate whether their data is being stolen or if it’s just background apps that are actually the culprit. My Web-Self Care will also allow users to track their call history. Was My Web Self-Care to blame to blame for the disappearing credit a few weeks ago? 
A few weeks ago, thousands of Econet subscribers were inconvenienced as their ‘airtime’ was randomly disappearing. When we contacted Econet they informed us that they had been having problems with their ‘out-of-bundle’ platform. 
Maybe. It makes sense that those problems were encountered just before Econet launches a new data tracking service. Econet may have been facing these challenges as they were actually testing out their new baby. Of course, it was a big inconvenience at the time but most customers did get refunded (if you did not, it may be wise to contact their customer service agents). 
Or is it that they built this in response to the outcry over the disappearing data? 
Overal though the My Web Self-Care portal seems like a good move that will help keep customers content and will hopefully resolve all queries concerning data usage. Would love to hear your thoughts on this move by Econet in the comments below. 
You can register for My Web Self-Care here share