WATCH: Bosso not focusing on DeMbare struggle – ‘We respect Dynamos, they are a good team’ by Sunday News Online | Sunday, Apr 1, 2018 | 1692 views Madinda Ndlovu 
Mehluli Sibanda, Senior Sports Reporter HIGHLANDERS coach Madinda Ndlovu is not reading much into his opponents, Dynamos’ poor form heading into what is the biggest game in the land when the two giants of Zimbabwean football clash at the National Sports Stadium in Harare tomorrow. 
Dynamos are yet to win a match so far in the Castle Lager Premier Soccer League with two defeats and one draw. They have just one point, something that should be a huge cause for concern for coach Lloyd Mutasa. Ngezi Platinum Stars handed them their second loss this season in a 1-0 victory at Baobab Stadium last Thursday. 
Speaking after his side put up a brilliant display but held to a goalless draw by Triangle at Barbourfields Stadium last Friday, Ndlovu said their approach against Dynamos would be the same as those they have employed against any other team in the league. 
“We are just going to approach the Dynamos game the same way we have approached this game here, we are going to work on the positives that we got from this game and see how we can better that. We are also going to work on the negatives and see how we are going to try and make it work for us,’’ Ndlovu said. 
Knowing well that Dynamos always raise their game whenever they face Highlanders, the Bosso coach is wary of the Glamour Boys. 
“Above all, we respect Dynamos, it’s a good team, we are not going to be carried away by the results they got in the last game.” 
Highlanders played at a high tempo against Triangle but could not breach the visitors’ rearguard. 
Ndlovu’s concern is if his boys would continue to produce such performances the entire season. 
“The only issue probably, are my boys going to carry on throughout the whole season, with this pace, that’s the worry that I’ve got right now, this is what is going through my mind to say how do I keep them giving the same kind of performance because they are indeed very physically fit, I don’t know if they are going to last the whole season, that’s the major worry that I have,’’ he said. 
If they play with the same pace they did against Triangle, Highlanders are certain to cause all sorts of problems for Dynamos tomorrow afternoon. 
Bosso are yet to taste defeat this season with two wins and one draw which has seen them collect seven points. 
Last season, the first meeting between the two teams was abandoned at Barbourfields after Highlanders fans protested against a decision to allow a goal scored by Dynamos striker Christian Epoupa to stand as they felt that it should have been disallowed since the player appeared to be in an offside position. The return fixture in Harare ended in a 1-1 draw with Epoupa once again hogging the limelight when he was sent off for head butting Highlanders defender Peter Muduhwa. 
The Cameroonian is also the talking point heading into tomorrow’s fixture as he has refused to feature for Dynamos since he is still owed signing on fees. 
Mutasa will look to the experienced Ocean Mushure, Tonderai Mateyaunga, Obey Mwerahari, Godfrey Mukambi, Blessing Moyo, Raphael Manuvire and youngster Kudzanayi Dhemere to lead the side to their first win of the season. 
The best player for Bosso so far is Nigel Makumbe with the midfielder giving Ndlovu no regrets about getting him on loan from FC Platinum where he had spent years on the sidelines without getting an opportunity. Makumbe was removed towards the end against Triangle, an indication that the Bosso coach has bigger plans for him tomorrow. 
Another new signing, MacClive Phiri has also been outstanding with the former Tsholotsho player deployed at right back and also unleashed in attack. Should Makumbe and Phiri strike the right cord with Patrick Musaka, Honest Moyo, Tendai Ndlovu, Muduhwa, Godfrey Makaruse, Ozias Zibande, Brian Banda as well as Gabriel Nyoni, then Bosso could return to Bulawayo with the three points. 
In 2016, Highlanders ended a decade long failure to beat Dynamos when they took six points off DeMbare. They won 2-0 at Rufaro and recorded a 2-1 triumph at Barbourfields. 
A win tomorrow will certainly give the Bosso fans every reason to believe the championship could be headed their way for the first time since 2006. 
Fixtures 
Today: Herentals v Yadah (Rufaro), Bulawayo Chiefs v Chapungu (Luveve), Black Rhinos v Caps United (NSS). 
Tomorrow: FC Platinum v Bulawayo City (Mandava), Mutare City v Harare City (Vengere), Nichrut v Ngezi Platinum Stars (Ascot), Dynamos v Highlanders (NSS), Triangle v ZPC Kariba (Gibbo), Chicken Inn v Shabanie Mine (Luveve). >