by Sunday News Online | Sunday, Apr 1, 2018 | 973 views Mr Innocent Manyera 
Nkosilathi Sibanda, Business Correspondent THE call by the Government to create an investor friendly environment has had a huge impact on the tourism sector which is recording a high number of foreign visitors to the country. 
The Hospitality Association of Zimbabwe (HAZ) noted that the stakeholders in the sector were optimistic of a change in fortunes as the Government continues with its campaign to lure investors. The Zimbabwe Tourism Authority (ZTA) said growth in the tourism sector was commendable as hotel room occupancy increased to around 64 per cent ahead of the Easter holidays. 
HAZ president Mr Innocent Manyera attributed the increased tourist trend to Government’s stance on the ease of doing business across all sectors. 
“We are noticing an increase in the number of visitors to most tourist destinations. All this is because of Government’s engagement with foreign investors. When an investor comes in, they bring an entourage of visitors as well. They come in as groups and this translates to more business for the hospitality industry. 
“Visitors want to feel the change in Zimbabwe and when they get back to their home, they sell our destinations. Thanks to the new political dispensation. The country is definitely going up the ladder in the hospitality industry,” said Mr Manyera. 
HAZ, according to Mr Manyera, is projecting that more benefits would accrue to the sector as the country gears towards elections. 
“The trend in tourist arrivals will continue in the foreseeable future because there has been never a time when Zimbabwe was so attractive. Even as we go into the election period, foreign tourists will come.” 
In Victoria Falls, Zimbabwe’s prime holiday destination, tourist arrival figures have soared since January, surpassing record high last seen in the 1990s. Shearwater group public relations manager Mr Clement Mukwasi, said more tourists were trooping to the resort town. 
“Victoria Falls is busy. Business is brisk at hotels, lodges and eateries. Every activity around the Falls is fully booked. Notably, we are registering a lot of South African and European visitors. “The Easter holidays have brought in more activities as a number of foreign visitors are here to witness the lunar tour at the Victoria Falls. This is pleasing because it comes at a time when Government is inviting investors across the globe to do business in the country,” said Mr Mukwasi. 
Zimbabwe Council for Tourism regional representative, Mrs Barbara Murasiranwa said profitability in the sector has also increased. She said room occupancy and activities uptake have surged by 20 percent during the first two months compared to the same period last year. 
“During the first two months of the year, total arrivals at Victoria Falls International Airport stood at 49 979, representing a 34 percent surge from last year’s figure of 37 322.” 
The country’s holiday destinations have over the years, been preferred. According to tourist booking site Expert Africa, at one time in the 1990s, there was a record of 1,5 million guests every year. 
“Our bookings have increased by over 60 percent, compared to previous years,” Expert Africa’s Mr Chris McIntyre was quoted recently.” 
Asked on the prospects of tourism growth, Mr Ross Kennedy chief executive officer of Africa Albida Tourism said he was optimistic. 
“Zimbabwe’s new political dispensation is bringing in a new era of inclusiveness and incentives that are attracting potential investors. The new political dispensation is showing a clear ‘open arms welcome’ policy to the world, and we are working closely with the appropriate ministries to enhance the ease of doing business with Tourism Zimbabwe.” >