Farmers urged to unlock value through maximised land use by Sunday News Online | Sunday, Apr 1, 2018 | 558 views Cde Cain Mathema 
Dumisani Nsingo, Farming Reporter THERE is a need for farmers to unlock the potential value of their land through embarking on maximum production of crops with a scope for agro-processing and export market so as to ensure the agricultural sector plays a pivotal role in turning around the country’s economy, an official said. 
Speaking at a field day at Mr Kalani Ndlovu’s Mjayeli Farm in Umguza District in Matabeleland North Province on Thursday last week, Minister of State for Matabeleland North Provincial Affairs Ambassador Cain Mathema said the Government has targeted agriculture as one of the pivotal sectors that would lead to the recovery of the country’s economy. 
“We need to unlock the potential value of our land through maximum production of all crops with much focus on crops which have scope for agro-processing and export market. This will benefit the general public through employment and also increase access to markets and households income for farmers. We urge farmers to diversify livestock and cropping enterprises so as to increase production and their profit margins. We also encourage farmers to reduce field losses at harvesting and also add value to their crops and livestock products to increase market value,” said Amb Mathema. 
He said the Government was working on ensuring that the country was food self-sufficient. 
“Our core business in this new dispensation is to bring the country back to its self-sufficient status, food surplus so that it re-emerges as the bread basket of Southern Africa. This can be successfully done if we have the calibre of farmers like Mr (Kalani) Ndlovu who are willing to support the Government initiatives to build its buffer grain stocks for future use. 
Maize, soya bean and sugar bean crops play a major role in the country’s economy because they contribute to food security, employment creation and as raw materials in stock feed manufacturing,” said Amb Mathema. 
He said in addition to the introduction of the Special Maize Programme popularly known as Command Agriculture in 2016 aimed at boosting silos for local consumption and reducing grain imports, the Government further expanded the programme to include wheat and soya beans as these are insufficient. 
“Wheat is for confectionery while soya bean is used in oil making and livestock feed. In both these crops we are yet to meet self-sufficient status as a nation in producing them. One of the major challenges in failing to attain this status is the continuous drought which has been experienced in the past years so currently Government is investing its resources to irrigation development,” said Amb Mathema. 
He also urged farmers to adhere to regulations set by Government so as to enhance production and to ensure the country meets export requirements. “It is critical that as farmers we observe regulations set by the Government from land governance issues to animal movements and respect for property and infrastructure such as farm fences and electricity cables. Failure to observe these critical issues results in failure to control livestock diseases such as Foot and Mouth Disease, loss of crop production through electricity cable theft and failing to manage grazing land. This in turn jeopardises Government efforts to uplift community economic-socio livelihoods,” said Amb Mathema. 
He said Government was working on supporting the agro-industry to enable it to improve productivity. 
“Government calls upon all value chain players in the agro-industry to play a critical role in moving the country forward. The Government is prepared to create a suitable environment for such initiatives to ensure that socio-economic livelihoods for its citizens are uplifted. 
“I would like to call upon farmers to take heed of the call by Government to produce fruit trees as these offer opportunities for agro-processing like fruit juices and medicinal products . . . The country is importing a lot of fruit and fruit juices yet we have farmers who have the capacity to do that,” said Amb Mathema. 
Matabeleland North Department of Agricultural Technical and Extension Services (Agritex) provincial officer Mr Dumisani Nyoni reiterated Minister Mathema’s sentiments saying there was a need for farmers to engage in various agricultural enterprises at their farms so as to realise profits as well as contribute towards the country’s Gross Domestic Product. 
“We are looking forward to maximisation of production at farms. If you move around you will realise that most farms are underutilised . . . Of course there has been market challenges and also issues of funding — seasonal long term loans for agriculture development. 
“However, this is where you see Government coming up with a programme like Command which is basically a contract programme bridging the gap as farmers didn’t have access to short term finance to support production of crops so there is now a programme to support strategic crops . . . ,” said Mr Nyoni. 
He said there is a need to add value to agricultural produce so as to derive maximum benefits. 
“If our country’s economy was to be revived through agriculture there is a need to look at horticultural crops with a view of value addition and going to fruit trees you will realise we are importing a lot of fruit juices, why not grow fruit trees to the extent that our production supports value addition, which is agro-processing that’s actually creating more employment and market for the produce that will be coming from the farmers,” said Mr Nyoni. 
Mr Ndlovu said he had to embark on integrated farming production as a way of ensuring maximum utilisation of the land at his disposal. 
Integrated production is a whole organic farm management system which aims to deliver more sustainable agriculture. 
It is a dynamic approach which can be applied to any farming system around the world. 
Mr Ndlovu was allocated the 840-hectare in 2015 under Government’s land reform programme. >