  Sport › Chicksen hails Warriors camaraderie Chicksen hails Warriors camaraderie April 1, 2018 in Sport 
England-based versatile defender Adam Chicksen didn’t know what to expect when he embarked on his first trip to his father’s homeland after being handed his maiden Warriors call-up ahead of the recent FIFA international break. 
BY DANIEL NHAKANISO 
Although he had always harbored dreams of donning the Warriors jersey, Chicksen, whose father grew up in Bulawayo before moving to England, was yet to step foot in the country. 
In addition, Chicksen was meeting his coaches and teammates for the first time and didn’t understand any of the local languages. 
The 26-year-old professional footballer, who plays for English League One club Bradford City, however, says he was pleased by the way he was made to feel welcome by his Warriors colleagues. 
“I have always aspired to play for the Warriors and I think playing for your country is the greatest honour a player can receive and is a special moment when you look back on your career. 
“The boss (team manager Wellington Mupandare) got in contact with me earlier in the season (last year) due to how well my team had been playing as well as my personal performances. He asked me to play but at that time I was injured, so when the opportunity came around the second time, I jumped at the chance. 
“I loved every minute of the tournament. I was so ready to express my qualities to the people of Zimbabwe and on a world stage,” Chicksen told The Sports Hub in an exclusive interview from his United Kingdom base. 
“I think there is a great team culture (in the Warriors squad) and the guys all made me feel very welcome.” 
Chicksen, who has played for a number of teams in the UK such as Milton Keynes Dons, Leyton Orient, Brighton & Hove Albion, Gillingham, Fleetwood Town and Charlton Athletic before moving to Bradford City, also revealed how he managed to cope with the language barrier with his Warriors teammates. 
“I can’t wait to learn more of the language, but I think football is a universal language. When we were in Zambia I made sure straight away I learnt the names of my team mates, learnt the basics of the language and formed a bond with the players because then I knew when I walked on to the pitch I could organise the people around me better. It becomes very easy after that. 
And after finally getting a first taste of international football with the Warriors, Chicksen says he can’t wait to showcase his talent in front of the home fans in the near future. 
“The one thing I’m itching to do now is to play in front of the fans at home and hopefully we can give them a Warrior-like performance they deserve. I’m sure the fans will be there in their numbers and passionate and supporting as they were for this tournament. I thought how we played as a team we set out to go for our opponents — I enjoy that,” he said. 
“I’m a very driven, hungry, passionate person that only works for the team, not as an individual. And will never stop trying to improve myself and the people around me. I love this sport and hopefully can entertain the fans, but also show I will give everything all the time,” he said.