  Entertainment › Life & Style › Mnangagwa Jnr fights piracy Mnangagwa Jnr fights piracy April 1, 2018 in Entertainment , Life & Style 
Copies of first son Emmerson “St Emmo” Mnangagwa junior’s (pictured) second album Abstractica will not be hitting music pirates’ roadside stands anytime soon and those yearning to get a feel of his music will have to buy online. 
By Kennedy Nyavaya 
No physical copies of the eight-track project have been made in what the upcoming music producer believes is a way to extract the real value of his art. “It’s art and I want to be paid for my art. I didn’t want to print CDs and put it on the road because I took time for it and I want to be paid for it, that’s why I took that route,” St Emmo told The Standard Style recently. 
“I know the amount of work I have put into it and if I do not value my art, it will show when people also do not value my work.” 
According to St Emmo, a famed club DJ, the process of making an abstract genre of his own music in the past two years took confidence and has been very emotional and a revelation of his true self in the music space. 
“On this album, I had to put a lot of different thought, emotions and mindset. You know when you are creating something out of the box, you should have a different mindset. So, I have to say this is not the typical commercial music; it’s music that has no rules and it’s just that which is an expression of how I felt at the time,” he said. 
“This is an expression I felt I should bring out through music because with commercial music you are always bound by certain rules.” 
For Abstractica, which features Hope Masike and Sylent Nqo, among others, and is a follow-up to his 2012 debut release titled The Producer’s CD, St Emmo is planning a “big” gig later this year to celebrate its success. 
“I am working towards a concert for this album hopefully end of this year and it is going to be something that someone has not done before. I can tell you that it is going to be big, very big.” 
On whether the new political dispensation, which saw his father’s ascendancy to the presidency, has had any positive impact on his work, St Emmo said it is “too early to tell” although he would rather depend on the influence of his own music aside from his father’s prominence. 
“Ever since the new dispensation I have not released anything. So, we will see, but I want my work, music to speak for itself. I want to push it as St Emmo music and if people like it, they like it and if they don’t then they don’t, but it has nothing to do with my father,” he said.