  Entertainment › Life & Style › Boity to light up 30 Billion Concert Boity to light up 30 Billion Concert April 1, 2018 in Entertainment , Life & Style 
Many might be excited that Nigerian superstar Davido is finally coming to Zimbabwe after three failed attempts last year. however, others are ecstatic over the fact that South African sexy TV personality and actress Boity will host the event. 
By Sindiso Dube 
The gig — dubbed 30 Billion Concert— will be headlined by Davido on April 21 at the Harare International Conference Centre. 
This is the vivacious Buitumelo Thulo my guy!! 
The model, who is a former lover of multi-award-winning and highly-ranked rapper Cassper Nyovest, has all that can drive an audience crazy, with the male audience more likely to gladly give in. What would you expect from someone whose name (Boity) means being sexy, beautiful, fabulous and amazing but also very crazy? 
With her killer smile, curves, caramel-coated skin and the looks to complement it all, Boity can literally stimulate anyone into doing anything. So the crowd is expected to eat out of the hands of the Potchefstroom-born saucy model. Boity is well-known for leaving fans on her social media platform slobbering for more as she constantly shows off her curvaceous summer body usually in stunning bikinis. 
The 30 Billion Concert will also feature an exclusive “all-white VVIP party” with Genius “Ginimbi” Kadungure. 
In a video clip making rounds on social media, Davido confirms his attendance and reveals that Boity will host the event. He also took time to apologise to his fans for making them wait in no avail last year. 
“I will be coming back to Zimbabwe for real this time. I do apologise to my fans that waited for me that time. There were some problems I had to attend to, but this time I will be live in Harare and thanks to my big brother Ginimbi, who is bringing me there and it is going to be hosted by Boity,” said Davido. 
Ginimbi’s infamous all-white parties have always sent tongues wagging and divided feelings. Other celebrities who have attended the parties include AKA, Pokello, Bonang, Nadia Nakai, Nomuzi Mabena, DJ Clive, Maps Maponyane, David Tlale and Blue Mbombo, among others.