TAGs: Prague Gaming Summit 2018 
Prague – 26 March 2018 – There are just a few days left until the second edition of Prague Gaming Summit opens its doors and grants access to +12 hours of learning and networking for the registered delegates. 
The latest announcement is an update to the speakers list. The latest announced experts are Zdenek Lang and Kamil Popiołek, the representatives of Superbet Poland and will join the “ Focus on Poland ” panel. 
The “Focus on Poland (panel discussion)” is scheduled to be held between 12:00 – 13:00 (Prague local time) and includes the following experts Piotr Dynowski (Bird&Bird), Anna Wietrzynska-Ciolkowska (DLA Piper), Zdenek Lang (Superbet Poland), Kamil Popiołek (Kancelaria Popiolek). 
The panel will be moderated by Bogdan Coman (ROMBET) and will be followed by a complimentary networking lunch sponsored by PLANZER LAW . 
The profiles of the latest announcement speakers can be found below: 
Zdenek Lang (Superbet Poland) 
Zdenek Lang started his career as Sales and Marketing Director responsible for sponsors, journalists and fans loyalty programs at SK Slavia Praha. He graduated the Faculty of Law at Charles University in Prague and has occupied several marketing roles at well known brands such as Fortuna Entertainment Group. 
Zdenek is currently a Marketing consultant at Superbet Poland. 
Kamil Popiolek (Kancelaria Popiolek) – Representing Superbet in Poland 
Kamil is a graduate of The Faculty of Law and Administration at the University of Silesia in Katowice. He also finished postgraduate studies in real estate trading and evaluation at the same University, where he was handling mainly issues of developer contracts. 
He took legal training within training organized by the District Chamber of Legal Advisors in Katowice. He is the Legal advisor since 2011. 
He specializes in particular in providing comprehensive legal services for businesses. 
He provided support in transactions such as purchase of an organized part of an enterprise, conclusion of international credit transaction, restructuring of commercial companies. On the daily basis he is associated primarily with mining and Energy industry as well as with gambling. He constantly participates in concession and tariff proceedings. He also takes part in commercial negotiations and negotiations with social side. 
Visit the official website of the event for more details: https://praguegamingsummit.com/ 
About the organizer, European Gaming Media and Events (formerly EEGMedia/EEGEvents) 
European Gaming Media and Events is a leading media and event organizer company in the European Union. 
The live events/conference division is in charge of organizing boutique style executive gaming events that focus on bringing inside information from the top gaming experts in the European Union and beyond. Their first event was held in Budapest on the 19th of September 2016. Since then the team have implemented more destinations into their event portfolio. 
In short, they cover most areas of Europe with international events that serve the local and global industry, optimize networking opportunities and bring the hottest topics into scope. 
The event destinations include Vienna, Prague, Budapest, Riga and Ljubljana with special focus around emerging markets. 
For more details about the calendar, agendas and locations, visit the Live Events/Conferences section on europeangaming.eu