TAGs: Investment Opportunities in Asian Gaming , Philippines , solaire resort and casino 
The inaugural Investment Opportunities in Asian Gaming will be held at Solaire Resort & Casino, Manila, Philippines on 5-7 June 2018. It will be the first summit held in the region providing a comprehensive overview of the various investment and expansion opportunities in the booming Asian gaming market. The summit will also highlight the latest land-based regulatory updates. 
The inaugural summit will be held in the Philippines, one of Asia’s hottest gaming markets. Casinos in the Philippines have contributed a combined US$828.8 million in 2017, up from US$679 million 12 months earlier, with over half of that total contributed by the 48 casinos operated by PAGCOR. The industry is expecting major changes in the area as PAGCOR, the government-owned corporation, needs to sell off its casinos and surrender its dual role as a regulator and operator under the reform bill. Andrea D. Domingo , Chairman & CEO of PAGCOR, will deliver her keynote on conference day two highlighting the future of the land-based gaming industry in the Philippines. Thomas Arasi , President & COO of Solaire Resort & Casino is also confirmed to speak. Solaire Resort & Casino is the first property launched in the Entertainment City, the Philippines. Solaire’s mother company, Bloomberry Resorts, was listed in the Nikkei’s Asia300 last month. 
2018 will be another interesting year for the land-based gaming industry not only in the Philippines but also in other parts of Asia. As many operators watch the realisation of the Japan’s Integrated Resort bill, the Summit will dedicated a session highlighting the realization timeline and its possible economic and social impacts in Japan. Other panels discussing the Asian gaming opportunities in Macau, Vietnam and Cambodia will also be held on day two of the conference. 
The conference will also focus on assessing geopolitical risk, raising capital, regional IPO’s, joint ventures and strategic partnerships in the APAC region. Dane Chamorro , Senior Partner of Control Risks South-East Asia will speak on the geopolitical dynamics in the Asia Pacific and the compliance issues affecting the gaming industry in the region. Other confirmed speakers include, Tim Shepherd , Director of Fortuna Investments and Co-Founder of Silver Heritage Group, William D. Greenlee, Jr. , Partner at DFDL, and Carlos Lobo , Lawyer at MCL Law Firm and former Legal Advisor to the Macau Gaming Commission. 
Day 3 of the Summit will host a focus day on the Asian and global eSports opportunities. Angie Ellis , Investment Manager at 80 20 Investments, will share a case study on investing in eSports from an investor perspective. Hai Ng , Co-Founder of Neomancer LLC & Spawn Point will also share his experience in the eSports sector. 
Readers of CalvinAyre.com enjoy a 10% discount, quote the promo code BP971CA upon registration. 
For full programme download, please visit https://ioiag.com/programme/ 
Beacon Events, the conference organizer of Investment Opportunities in Asian Gaming, also organizes the iGaming Asia Congress , the longest running igaming conference in Asia, and the Asia Gaming Summit , a conference covering the latest updates and innovations in land-based and online casinos, sports betting, eSports and lottery in Asia. 
About Gaming Events by Beacon 
Beacon Events is the organizer of some of the longest running gaming conferences in the Asia-Pacific region. The company gathers regulators, leading consultants, service providers, operators and affiliates from the igaming and land-based gaming sectors. Beacon Events understands that Asia is an energetic market filled with changes and opportunities, and that is why we have new events and workshops to assist gaming executives to stay ahead of the curve. 
Beacon Events currently have four conferences that answer the needs of different gaming sectors. This includes: 
iGaming Asia Congress (iGA) , the longest running dedicated iGaming event in Asia; 
Gaming, Racing & Wagering Australia (GRWA) , the longest standing gaming conference in the Australian and New Zealand region; 
Asia Gaming Summit (AGS) , a conference covering the latest regulatory updates, licensing topics, developments, marketing & diversification trends and innovations in gaming/igaming, online casino, sports betting, eSports and lottery in Asia; 
and Investment Opportunities in Asian Gaming (IOiAG) , an inaugural conference held at the Solaire Resort & Casino, Manila, in June 2018 covering the latest land-based regulatory updates and providing a comprehensive overview of the various investment and expansion opportunities. 
About Beacon Events 
For over 20 years, we have been a beacon of inspiration, innovation and thought-leadership, helping businesses chart their course to success with our insightful and industry-focused events. As an independent events company, Beacon’s expertise lies in producing first class international events that meet the challenges facing executives and businesses today. From Mining, Natural Resources & Commodities, Finance & Investment, Technology, eCommerce to Gaming events, our goal is to provide the perfect platform where senior executives, professionals and industry leaders come together to gain critical market intelligence, network and do business around the globe. 
Beacon Events – We inspire with bright ideas and transform business with brilliant events. 
Media Enquiry: 
Ms. Jennifer Lee / Ms. Louise Lim 
Beacon Events