TAGs: Pragmatic Play , royal panda 
Provider’s growing portfolio made available across desktop and mobile 
Malta, 26 March 2018: Multi-award-winning casino games provider, Pragmatic Play, has agreed a deal to take its entire portfolio live with leading operator Royal Panda. 
Games from the provider‘s acclaimed portfolio, including Wolf Gold , Vegas Nights and Gold Rush, are now available to the online casino’s players and live in all territories in which Royal Panda operates, including the UK, Germany and the Netherlands. 
Royal Panda is the first operator to integrate the games via the NYX platform, continuing Pragmatic Play’s impressive commercial progress in 2018. 
Melissa Summerfield, Chief Commercial Officer at Pragmatic Play said: “Signing an agreement to offer our leading selection of titles to Royal Panda players represents a real step forward for Pragmatic Play, at a time when we are engaged in an exciting expansion of our portfolio. 
“We look forward to working closely with Royal Panda as we launch our portfolio to their players.” 
Mark Podd, Chief Executive Officer at Royal Panda said: “Nothing is more important to us than ensuring our players have a royal good time, and Pragmatic Play’s excellent array of high-quality casino games are the perfect addition to our swelling portfolio. 
“Pragmatic is rapidly building a great reputation as one of the industry’s foremost providers of online casino content, and our players can look forward to a steady stream of impressive classic and video slots moving forward.” 
Releasing two new HTML5 games a month, Pragmatic Play’s titles now feature on many of the world’s leading casino brands. 
For more information on this release or to arrange an interview please contact Tom Lewis at Square in the Air on 020 3586 8257 or 
About Pragmatic Play 
Pragmatic Play is one of the fastest growing mobile and desktop providers of digital casino games for the online gaming industry. Our passion for premium entertainment is unrivalled and we strive to create only the most engaging and evocative gaming experiences. Pragmatic Play’s Games Library contains unique in-house content consisting of over 80 proven slot games, supporting 23 languages and all major currencies. We employ our extensive expertise to ensure that each high-quality game developed in our studios represents our mantra of innovation and dedication. 
For more information please visit http://pragmaticplay.com/ 
About Royal Panda 
Hosting sports betting, table games and a huge range of slots, Royal Panda is one of the UK’s fastest growing online casinos. 
Established in 2014, Royal Panda has quickly gained a strong reputation for its quality of online casino games, excellent customer service, and entertaining promotions. 
In addition to sports betting on over 140 major sports, and a wide variety of top casino games, players can also enjoy an exclusive live casino with popular games such as Royal Panda Live Roulette and Royal Panda Blackjack. New players are offered a welcome bonus of 100% up to £100 on their first deposit.