TAGs: eSports , ultraplay 
Online betting solutions provider UltraPlay has announced that its live betting model has been further extended to offer more exciting players’ experience for betting on their favorite eSports. 
Having been known for its leading eSports betting role in the iGaming industry, UltraPlay has recreated the years of eSports experience and profound knowledge into its sophisticated live betting model, which will provide more markets for players to place bets on. Amongst the new markets are Decider Map Played, Correct Score, Map Advantage, which every player can choose from during the game and enjoy the enhanced live betting powered by UltraPlay. The wider markets provision on live betting gives a greater advantage to the operators trying to catch the interest of the savvy eSports punters. 
Peter Ivanov, Head of trading at UltraPlay has commented: “ We are proud to provide the most advanced and competitive eSports live betting model on the market right now. The highest-quality product comes as a result of more than a year research and development in order to meet the expectations of both operators and players for dynamic eSports betting. The model will also serve as a solid ground for introducing more games into live betting in the future. ” 
The upgraded live betting model already covers all major events from the three leading games – CS:GO, Dota 2, and League of Legends. So far the collected results show a positive effect on the customer satisfaction in terms of increased volume and interest towards the games. More markets and new game titles are expected to be added to the model throughout the year with the main focus of the game objectives and personal markets. 
The new model is already available through the company’s match-predicting system Odds.gg, which serves to hundreds of leading iGaming operators across the globe entering or expanding their eSports betting coverage. Through Odds.gg bookmakers use the rich portfolio of UltraPlay, consistent with 25 competitive game titles, 3000+ eSports events per month, 1500 in-play events as well as 50+ markets. 
About UltraPlay: 
UltraPlay is a modern technological company, founded in 2010, with the core ambition to offer an innovative approach to the online gaming industry by providing advanced betting solutions, focused on sports and eSports betting, live betting, white label, online casino and Blockchain technology. 
Assembled by a team of iGaming professionals with vast experience in betting product development, operations, eSports and marketing, UltraPlay is a trusted partner for delivering superior sports software and odds products to its customers. Learn more about the company here: www.ultraplay.co 
Press contact: 
PR and Marketing Manager at UltraPlay 
Email: