TAGs: Clarion Gaming , iGB Live! 
26th March, 2018 (London) – Clarion Gaming, one of the world’s leading events organisers, has opened registration for the inaugural iGB Live!. 
The event, which takes place at the Amsterdam RAI between the 17 th -20 th July, brings the iGaming Super Show, EiG and the Amsterdam Affiliate Conference together for the world’s biggest dedicated iGaming exhibition and conference. 
iGB Live! 2018 also features a completely revamped conference format, with a strong focus on the delegate experience. 
Portfolio Director at Clarion Gaming Shona ODonnell said: “After spending many months creating a new Amsterdam show that will serve the needs of the entire igaming sector, it is fantastic to finally open registration. 
“We are certain the new show will exceed expectations, and we look forward to seeing delegates enjoying a week in Amsterdam, where they will be able to connect with the industry’s brightest lights. 
“Keep an eye out over the coming weeks for more exciting iGB Live! announcements and see you all in Amsterdam in July!” 
You can register for iGB Live! 2018 here. 
For more information, please contact: 
Square in the Air Communications 
David Bartram 
+44 (0) 20 3586 1978 
About Clarion Gaming: 
Clarion occupies a unique position in gaming, providing the full range of services to the global industry, including exhibitions, conferences, and technical training as well digital and print information. Clarion’s gaming brands are delivered globally and attract more than 50,000 customers annually in locations spanning every continent. ICE Totally Gaming is the world’s largest gaming technology exhibition. 
In 2017 the audited attendance of 30,213 – a record for the event – was drawn from 151 jurisdictions and sovereign states. Clarion also organise the world-renowned iGaming events GiGse (San Francisco) and iGB Live! (Amsterdam), as well as the established World Regulatory Briefings and Gaming Congresses in Brazil and Japan. 
Delivering multi-level training for gaming professionals since 2007, the Totally Gaming Academy has firmly positioned itself as the leader in gaming training across online and land based platforms and now offers training in casino management, online gaming, sports betting and anti-money laundering. TotallyGaming.com is the online community for the industry and iGaming Business is the dominant print publication in the sector.