Unusual smell detected in ice cave in Breiðamerkurjökull The ice cave has been named Kristallinn - or the crystal. mbl.is/RAX 
An unusual smell was detected in an ice cave in Breiðamerkurjökull yesterday. Specialists from the Iceland Met Office are now using equipment to measure for sulphur dioxide and sulphur hydroxide in the cave. 
The ice cave has been named Kristallinn, which means the Crystal, and Bjarki Kaldalón Friis at the Iceland Met Office has not heard of it before. The cave is not far from Öræfajökull which has experienced seismic unrest this year. 
"Whether this is connected to Öræfajökull is too early to say but we do know that there is something going on in Öræfajökull," he said speaking to mbl.is. Bigger quake possibly on its way "We think it's likely that the seismis activity will die down and that this morning's quake was the largest, but there could be a larger one or one of a similar size that will arrive. We can't rule that out," says Hildur María Friðriksdóttir at the Iceland Met Office asked about this mornings earthquake just off Grímsey and the ensuing uncertainty level raised by the Civil Protection in Iceland. Largest earthquake so far in Grímsey An earthquake of a magnitude of 5.2 was detected at Grímsey island at around 7 this morning. The powerful quake was felt in many parts of North Iceland and the department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management has declared a level of incertitude in North Iceland. © 2018 Árvakur hf., Iceland — All Rights Reserved Zeitgeist The ban on circumcision in Iceland: Humanity or hipocrisy? 
by Roald Eyvindsson 1 Bare breasts and girl power The Free The Nipple cause caused an immense stir in Icelandic society yesterday, breaking down norms, raising questions and making a strong feminist statement. Women, men, girls and boys were united for gender equality. Mbl.is visited a few colleges in Reykjavík and interviewed students about what the day means to them. 2 Seismic activity in Öræfajökull volcano continues. This month, fourteen earthquakes measuring over 1.2 have been detected. 3 A plane from the Icelandic WOW-air company flying from Iceland to Montreal in Canada was quarantined at the airport for several hours yesterday when a great number of ants were discovered on board. 4 The route no.1 through Skeiðarársandur and in Öræfi has been closed off due to weather. This means the road to the South and South East from Kirkjubæjarklaustur towards the Glacier Lagoon. The weather is said to be "dangerous to travellers." 5 Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. Currency