Nature and Travel | Iceland Monitor | Mon 26 Mar 2018 | 14.40 GMT Facebook Google+ Icelandic President found plogging at Presidential Residence Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, President of Iceland, plogging outside the Presidential residence at Bessastaðir. Photo/Halldóra Gyða Matthíasdóttir Proppé 
Guðni Th. Jóhannesson, President of Iceland has taken up the habit of plogging, the Swedish fitness craze for people concerned with the environment. 
A jogger, Halldóra Gyða Matthíasdóttir Proppé spotted the President plogging yesterday at Bessastaðir, the Presidential residence in Álftanes. She posted up a picture of him writing, "I'm so proud of our President who was picking up rubbish at Bessastaðir when I jogged past him this morning." 
Plogging is when people combine jogging with picking up rubbish. A Facebook page has been set up for people interested in plogging in Iceland, counting some six hundred members. Icelandic President speaks about #metoo "Hopefully we are at a turning point. Stop, this is as far as this goes, is what's heard all over the world," said President Guðni Th. Jóhannesson on a conference on the influence of #metoo on corporate culture at Grand Hotel today. Iceland presents decision to exceed goals of Paris Agreement at One Planet Summit Iceland's new governmental decision to take global warming issues further than the Paris Agreement entails met with a great reception at the One Planet summit yesterday. It was new PM Katrín Jakobsdóttir who spoke at the summit to present Iceland's environmental and global warming policies. Over 3000 ravens hunted annually in Iceland The raven is in danger of extinction in Iceland, announced a surprising report by national broadcasting service Rúv last night. Over 3000 ravens are hunted every year, a figure which needs to be considerably limited according to the Institute of Natural History. Environmentalists call for a ban of heavy fuel oil in arctic shipping Cruise ships pose risk to arctic nature and the health of people say a group of experts from Germany's Nature and Biodiversiy Union who found that air pollution levels in the wind direction of arriving or departing vessels in Reykjavik were 1000 times higher compared to local background concentrations. © 2018 Árvakur hf., Iceland — All Rights Reserved Zeitgeist The ban on circumcision in Iceland: Humanity or hipocrisy? 
by Roald Eyvindsson 1 Bare breasts and girl power The Free The Nipple cause caused an immense stir in Icelandic society yesterday, breaking down norms, raising questions and making a strong feminist statement. Women, men, girls and boys were united for gender equality. Mbl.is visited a few colleges in Reykjavík and interviewed students about what the day means to them. 2 Seismic activity in Öræfajökull volcano continues. This month, fourteen earthquakes measuring over 1.2 have been detected. 3 A plane from the Icelandic WOW-air company flying from Iceland to Montreal in Canada was quarantined at the airport for several hours yesterday when a great number of ants were discovered on board. 4 The route no.1 through Skeiðarársandur and in Öræfi has been closed off due to weather. This means the road to the South and South East from Kirkjubæjarklaustur towards the Glacier Lagoon. The weather is said to be "dangerous to travellers." 5 Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. Currency