210 million ISK for tourism upbuild in Jökulsárgljúfur Jökulsárgljúfur offers magnificent nature. mbl.is/Sigurður Bogi Sævarsson 
The Jökulsárgljúfur area in the Vatnajökull National Park will receive 210 million Icelandic kronas for amenities such as a car park, walking paths and toilets. 
A car park at Ásbyrgi will be enlarged, cycling and walking paths between Gljúfrastofa and the camp site will be constructed and walking paths at Botnstjörn will be developed. 
Toilets and viewing platforms will be constructed west of Dettifoss, Iceland's most powerful waterfall. This was revealed in a report in yesterday's edition of Morgunblaðið. Fund raising effort for Iceland's most remote art museum The incredible art collection by artist Samúel Jónsson in Selárdalur, North Iceland, has inspired awe and wonder by everyone who visits it. Now, a society has been formed to save the statues by the artist, who passed away in 1969 and to restore this museum at the edge of the habitable world. “Dangerous” road North West Iceland’s jewels Vatnsnes peninsula in North West Iceland is best known for an impressive basalt stack called Hvítserkur and a volcanic plug named Borgarvirki. The road around the peninsula has been described by the local municipality as “unacceptably bad and is dangerous for those who use it.” © 2018 Árvakur hf., Iceland — All Rights Reserved Zeitgeist The ban on circumcision in Iceland: Humanity or hipocrisy? 
by Roald Eyvindsson 1 Bare breasts and girl power The Free The Nipple cause caused an immense stir in Icelandic society yesterday, breaking down norms, raising questions and making a strong feminist statement. Women, men, girls and boys were united for gender equality. Mbl.is visited a few colleges in Reykjavík and interviewed students about what the day means to them. 2 Seismic activity in Öræfajökull volcano continues. This month, fourteen earthquakes measuring over 1.2 have been detected. 3 A plane from the Icelandic WOW-air company flying from Iceland to Montreal in Canada was quarantined at the airport for several hours yesterday when a great number of ants were discovered on board. 4 The route no.1 through Skeiðarársandur and in Öræfi has been closed off due to weather. This means the road to the South and South East from Kirkjubæjarklaustur towards the Glacier Lagoon. The weather is said to be "dangerous to travellers." 5 Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. Currency