Photo by Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images. THE GOOD NEWS: 
Photoshopping may be phased out faster than we know it. 

Have we hit the tipping point where celebrities are now afraid of being Photoshopped? Has the public become so bored by perfection that flawless skin and unrealistic waistlines are now as vulgar as wearing fur? 
Let’s hope so. 
Recently, big-name stars including Keira Knightley, Lady Gaga, Jennifer Lawrence, Kerry Washington, and Nicki Minaj have all complained about being digitally altered in photos. Now, Elizabeth Olsen, who reprises her role as Scarlet Witch in the upcoming “Avengers: Infinity War,” claims she’s been Photoshopped beyond recognition in a new issue of Empire magazine. 
Olsen posted a photo of the magazine on Instagram with the caption, “April 27th ... Does this look like me?” Elizabeth Olsen appears with her #AvengersInfinityWar co-stars on the latest Empire cover, but her face has been photoshopped. The actress fired back on Instagram: https://t.co/pwxRGR5kc9 pic.twitter.com/lM1NMqUZjY 
The retouched photo altered Olsen’s hair and streamlined her nose to the point that it looks like she’s had plastic surgery. 
“No Lizzie, you don’t need this terrible photoshop,” one fan commented. 
Another added, “No, that is insulting to your real, actually sweet face! So unnecessary.” 
The Instagram post has since been removed. 
Empire says it isn’t to blame for the debacle. “Empire magazine did not make any alterations to the ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ artwork, supplied to them by Disney and Marvel Studios, that appears on the May 2018 cover,” it said in a statement to Today Style . (As of yet, neither Disney nor Marvel have responded to Empire’s claim.) 
If publishers are heading for the hills after being accused of Photoshopping, it’s a good indicator that the technique is becoming passé. And if more people in the public eye come forward about being altered against their wishes, the practice may become a thing of the past. 
Preview image via Pascal Le Segretain/Getty Images. Share image via Valery Hache/Getty Images, IndieWire/Twitter . 
Recently on GOOD The Trailer For Serena Williams' New HBO Documentary Series Might Give You Goosebumps The HBO series will tackle her whirlwind year as a new mother and wife — and her return to the court. Sports White Sox Re-Hire Man Who Spent 23 Years In Jail For A Crime He Didn't Commit When friends and family reached out to the ballclub, the man was granted an interview, then offered his old job back. Sports Why You Should Care About Eastern Ghouta And What You Can Do To Help There are many organizations who need donations to continue their work in Syria. Communities Women Share Their Pleasure Principles In A Podcast About Literal Self-Love Ménage à Moi is not about female desirability; nor does it treat sex, alone or with a partner, as precious. Lifestyle Here’s How To Download A Copy Of Your Facebook Data After the data breach, you should know what Facebook knows about you. Culture ‘Silicon Valley’ Offered Up A Subtle And Scathing Dig At Facebook In Its Opening Credits Blink and you’d miss it — but once you see it, the significance isn’t difficult to grasp. Culture