— Adam Baldwin (@AdamBaldwin) March 24, 2018 
The altered photo of Gonzalez was originally taken for the cover of Teen Vogue, which featured her ripping up a gun range bull’s-eye with the title #NeverAgain. 
“The fact that we even have to clarify this is proof of how democracy continues to be fractured by people who manipulate and fabricate the truth,” Teen Vogue chief content officer Phillip Picardi tweeted. “From where we stand, these are even more reasons we have to listen to what she’s saying and continue our unwavering support.” 
While callous gun rights activists attempt to smear Gonzalez and her grieving colleagues, the 18-year-old is standing strong. She took the podium at the March for Our Lives in Washington, D.C., in front over around 800,000 people, speaking and then standing silently for 6 minutes and 20 seconds — the amount of time it took the Parkland shooter to kill 17 of her classmates. Watch Emma Gonzalez take the stage for 6 minutes and 20 seconds — the exact amount of time it took for a gunman with an AR-15 to take 17 lives in Parkland pic.twitter.com/s2pCWdoPnB 
Share image via Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images. Recently on GOOD The Trailer For Serena Williams' New HBO Documentary Series Might Give You Goosebumps The HBO series will tackle her whirlwind year as a new mother and wife — and her return to the court. Sports White Sox Re-Hire Man Who Spent 23 Years In Jail For A Crime He Didn't Commit When friends and family reached out to the ballclub, the man was granted an interview, then offered his old job back. Sports Why You Should Care About Eastern Ghouta And What You Can Do To Help There are many organizations who need donations to continue their work in Syria. Communities Women Share Their Pleasure Principles In A Podcast About Literal Self-Love Ménage à Moi is not about female desirability; nor does it treat sex, alone or with a partner, as precious. Lifestyle Here’s How To Download A Copy Of Your Facebook Data After the data breach, you should know what Facebook knows about you. Culture ‘Silicon Valley’ Offered Up A Subtle And Scathing Dig At Facebook In Its Opening Credits Blink and you’d miss it — but once you see it, the significance isn’t difficult to grasp. Culture