Eleven new restaurants for the hip Grandi harbour district in Reykjavik The food hall will be located in this former fish packing building. mbl.is/Kristinn Ingvarsson 
In recent years restaurants have been popping up around Grandi, the fish packing district of Reykjavik. Now, eleven requests to open new restaurants there await licences from the city authorities to open there. 
A new food market will open there called Sjávarklasinn, which will be similar to Hlemmur Mathöll food hall at Hlemmur square in central Reykjavik. Nine restaurants will be located on its upper floor. 
The Grandi district already offers several restaurants and shops as well as gourmet food stores such as a butcher's shop, a cake shop and a cheese shop. Hamburger haven to open next to West Reykjavik swimming pool The hot dog stand next to Vesturbæjarlaug swimming pool will be transformed into a gourmet food truck by May. The new manager is Ólafur Örn Ólafsson, known for managing Michelin star restaurant Dill and food market Krás in the city centre. Champagne tasting at Hlemmur food hall for Valentines day Valentine's Day has recently begun to be celebrated in Iceland and hot on its heels is Konudagur, or women's day, on February 18th, a day when a man should do nice things for the woman in his life. To celebrate this, Kröst restaurant at Hlemmur Mathöll are offering champagne tasting for a bargain price. Slippurinn restaurant and the new wave of cooking coming from Iceland The Slow Food association has published an interview with Icelandic wunderkind chef Gísli Matthías Auðunsson. He's the founder of the critically acclaimed restaurant Slippurinn in the Westman Islands and also runs a small restaurant, Skál, at Hlemmur Mathöll, the food hall in Reykjavik. © 2018 Árvakur hf., Iceland — All Rights Reserved Zeitgeist The ban on circumcision in Iceland: Humanity or hipocrisy? 
by Roald Eyvindsson 1 Bare breasts and girl power The Free The Nipple cause caused an immense stir in Icelandic society yesterday, breaking down norms, raising questions and making a strong feminist statement. Women, men, girls and boys were united for gender equality. Mbl.is visited a few colleges in Reykjavík and interviewed students about what the day means to them. 2 Seismic activity in Öræfajökull volcano continues. This month, fourteen earthquakes measuring over 1.2 have been detected. 3 A plane from the Icelandic WOW-air company flying from Iceland to Montreal in Canada was quarantined at the airport for several hours yesterday when a great number of ants were discovered on board. 4 The route no.1 through Skeiðarársandur and in Öræfi has been closed off due to weather. This means the road to the South and South East from Kirkjubæjarklaustur towards the Glacier Lagoon. The weather is said to be "dangerous to travellers." 5 Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. Currency