Photo by Win McNamee/Getty Images. THE GOOD NEWS: 
It only takes a few minutes to download your Facebook data and protect your information from being shared. 

Facebook’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg is in hot water due to his company’s lax user data protections. Recent reports show that Cambridge Analytica, a data firm funded by the right-wing billionaire Robert Mercer and advised by alt-right hero Steve Bannon, used the personal information of over 50 million Facebook users to help elect Donald Trump president. 
This massive data breach probably has you wondering what Facebook knows about you. The good news is that Facebook allows you to download your information so you can see. 
How to download a copy of your Facebook data: 
Step 1: Log in to Facebook on a desktop computer. 
Step 2: Go into your account settings by dropping down the menu in the right-hand corner of the screen. 
Step 3: At the bottom of the “Settings” menu, you’ll see a highlighted link that reads: “Download a copy of your Facebook data.” 
Step 4: You’ll be asked to input your password. Facebook will email you when your archive is ready. It should take about 10 minutes. 
Step 5: When the email arrives, you’ll be asked to input your password again for security reasons. Then, you’re free to download your archive which will arrive in your computer's “Downloads” folder as a zip drive. 
Step 6: Create a folder on your computer to extract the zip files when they arrive. 
In your archive, you should see your profile information, posts, photos, and videos you’ve shared, your Facebook Messenger history, and a list of everyone you’ve friended and de-friended. 
Freaked out over the amount of information you have out there? Facebook also allows you to limit the information it shares with marketers. 
How to stop apps from sharing your personal information: 
Step 1: Go to your Facebook homepage and click “Settings” from the top-right drop-down menu. 
Step 2: Click “Apps” on the left-hand side of the screen. 
Step 3: You'll see a screen with four boxes: “Apps, Websites, and Plugins,” “Game and App Notifications,” Apps Others Use,” and “Old Versions of Facebook Mobile.” 
Step 4: Under “Apps Others Use,” click “Edit.” 
Step 5: De-select every button for every piece of personal information you’re not comfortable sharing with data marketers. 
Share image by Win McNamee/Getty Images. Recently on GOOD Here’s How Expensive It Is To Have Kids In The U.S. In many cities, childcare can cost more than the average rent. Lifestyle Trump’s Military Policy Overlooks Data On Why Transgender Troops Are Fit To Serve About 15,000 transgender people are currently serving across all branches of the U.S. armed forces. Communities Political Cartoon Perfectly Satirizes Trump’s Takeover Of The Religious Right 78% of white evangelicals currently approve of the president. Culture A Dad Tried A Labor Pain Simulator And … It Was A Bit Much "At the baby shower for my son and his wife, we thought he should experience labor pain." Communities Watching A Man Power-Wash Racist Graffiti Is Ridiculously Satisfying His ErasingHate Instagram account is documenting his tireless efforts to rid the streets of hate symbols. Communities Hillary Clinton Addressed Critics Who Say She Should ‘Go Away’ She plans to campaign for Democrats in the 2018 midterms. Communities 