Share on Facebook Click me! Share on Twitter Click me! Copy Link 
Fans of HBO’s “Silicon Valley,” the tech startup satire that has remained spot-on into its fifth season, know to keep an eye out for the rise and fall of tech giants in the show’s opening sequence. As an aerial shot passes through an animated version of the tech mecca, symbolism abounds in the rise and fall of various signs and buildings representing the evolving tech landscape specific to that season’s economic climate. 
In previous seasons’ intros , we’ve seen the balloons representing rival ride-booking platforms Lyft and Uber inflate and deflate as the companies jockey for supremacy over their industry’s space. We also saw the logo for the video app Vine wind up in a dumpster after its sudden shutdown. 
On the show’s fifth-season premiere, the intro sequence continued to offer a dynamic look at the drama among Silicon Valley firms, but what stood out to many fans (and tech insiders who delight in their representations) was the show’s treatment of the Facebook logo. 
Embroiled in controversy following mounting evidence of the company’s role in election tampering through Russian fake news sources , Facebook found its animated logo on the show briefly flickering to Russian characters in a nod to the charges surrounding CEO Mark Zuckerburg and others. 
These Easter eggs aren’t isolated to the current season either. To celebrate the finale of season four, YouTuber Shots Fired created a seven-minute clip breaking down the significance of the intro graphics from all of season four, so that even non-techies could keep up with the brimming references and innuendo. 
For many companies, being lampooned on “Silicon Valley” might be a fun nod toward relevance, but it’s a safe bet that Facebook would much rather exist in relative silence than have the show remind the world of the profound, negative impact the social media site made on American politics. 
Share image via HBO/Shots Fired/YouTube . Recently on GOOD The Trailer For Serena Williams' New HBO Documentary Series Might Give You Goosebumps The HBO series will tackle her whirlwind year as a new mother and wife — and her return to the court. Sports White Sox Re-Hire Man Who Spent 23 Years In Jail For A Crime He Didn't Commit When friends and family reached out to the ballclub, the man was granted an interview, then offered his old job back. Sports Why You Should Care About Eastern Ghouta And What You Can Do To Help There are many organizations who need donations to continue their work in Syria. Communities Women Share Their Pleasure Principles In A Podcast About Literal Self-Love Ménage à Moi is not about female desirability; nor does it treat sex, alone or with a partner, as precious. Lifestyle Here’s How To Download A Copy Of Your Facebook Data After the data breach, you should know what Facebook knows about you. Culture Remington Outdoor Company Files Bankruptcy Amid ‘Trump Slump’ In Gun Sales The Trump presidency seems to be a nightmare for gun sellers. Communities