Nature and Travel | Iceland Monitor | Tue 27 Mar 2018 | 14.15 GMT Facebook Google+ Swarm of earthquakes hits North Iceland The earthquakes this morning with the largest shown as a green star on the map. Skjáskot/Veðurstofa Íslands 
Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. 
The swarm began at around 00.30 last night and most of them were at a magnitude of between 1.0 and 2.0. An earthquake of 2.8 occurred North East of Grímsey. 
The Iceland Met Office sees no cause for concern but is carefully monitoring events. Bigger quake possibly on its way "We think it's likely that the seismis activity will die down and that this morning's quake was the largest, but there could be a larger one or one of a similar size that will arrive. We can't rule that out," says Hildur María Friðriksdóttir at the Iceland Met Office asked about this mornings earthquake just off Grímsey and the ensuing uncertainty level raised by the Civil Protection in Iceland. Largest earthquake so far in Grímsey An earthquake of a magnitude of 5.2 was detected at Grímsey island at around 7 this morning. The powerful quake was felt in many parts of North Iceland and the department of Civil Protection and Emergency Management has declared a level of incertitude in North Iceland. Earth shakes in Grindavík, just near the Blue Lagoon A sharp earthquake was felt in the town of Grindavík last night at 21:15 measuring 3.5 on the Richter scale. It was followed by two other smaller quakes. A lot of people felt the earthquake and rang the Iceland Met Office. © 2018 Árvakur hf., Iceland — All Rights Reserved Zeitgeist The ban on circumcision in Iceland: Humanity or hipocrisy? 
by Roald Eyvindsson 1 Bare breasts and girl power The Free The Nipple cause caused an immense stir in Icelandic society yesterday, breaking down norms, raising questions and making a strong feminist statement. Women, men, girls and boys were united for gender equality. Mbl.is visited a few colleges in Reykjavík and interviewed students about what the day means to them. 2 Seismic activity in Öræfajökull volcano continues. This month, fourteen earthquakes measuring over 1.2 have been detected. 3 A plane from the Icelandic WOW-air company flying from Iceland to Montreal in Canada was quarantined at the airport for several hours yesterday when a great number of ants were discovered on board. 4 The route no.1 through Skeiðarársandur and in Öræfi has been closed off due to weather. This means the road to the South and South East from Kirkjubæjarklaustur towards the Glacier Lagoon. The weather is said to be "dangerous to travellers." 5 Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. Currency