A march in Reykjavik to support the marches across America against gun violence 
mbl.is/Kristinn Magnússon 
Around 100 people joined a march in downtown Reykjavik to show solidarity with the marches across the US against gun violence folowing the tragic attack in a Florida school in February when 17 people lost their lives. 
The march was organised by Americans living in Reykjavik and was also joined by many Icelandic college students. The peaceful march was at one point disrupted by a man who made his way into the gathered crowd and pulled a knife on the demonstrators. 
" Luckily 2 demonstrators took swift action and subdued the attacker and the police apprehended him without incident," said Paula Gould, organiser of the march. 
The march in the central street of Austurstræti. mbl.is/Kristinn Magnússon 
Paula Gould, the organiser behind the March for our Lives in Reykjavik. mbl.is/Kristinn Magnússon 

Nicole Leigh Mosty joined the march . mbl.is/Kristinn Magnússon 
mbl.is/Kristinn Magnússon Iceland's energy not for the EU to decide Finance Minister Bjarni Benediktsson says Iceland's energy matters are not an issue that Icelanders should have to discuss with the European Union in Brussels. The country's energy matter are simply not a "Single Market issue" he said in a debate in the Icelandic parliament this morning. City Elections: Majority holds, Independence Party gains according to new poll According to a new poll by Viðskiptablaðið newspaper, the majority will hold in the upcoming Reykjavik city elections in May. The Alliance Party would receive 29.9 percent of votes and the Independence Party coming at a close second with 29 percent. Relatives of Icelander reported dead in Syria unhappy with government action The family of Haukur Hilmarsson, the Icelander who has been reported as killed in conflict in Syria demand that the Foreign Minister directly contacts NATO or Turkish authorities to find out whether Hilmarsson is dead or alive and if he is dead, to have the Turkish authorities send his body to Iceland. © 2018 Árvakur hf., Iceland — All Rights Reserved Zeitgeist The ban on circumcision in Iceland: Humanity or hipocrisy? 
by Roald Eyvindsson 1 Bare breasts and girl power The Free The Nipple cause caused an immense stir in Icelandic society yesterday, breaking down norms, raising questions and making a strong feminist statement. Women, men, girls and boys were united for gender equality. Mbl.is visited a few colleges in Reykjavík and interviewed students about what the day means to them. 2 Seismic activity in Öræfajökull volcano continues. This month, fourteen earthquakes measuring over 1.2 have been detected. 3 A plane from the Icelandic WOW-air company flying from Iceland to Montreal in Canada was quarantined at the airport for several hours yesterday when a great number of ants were discovered on board. 4 The route no.1 through Skeiðarársandur and in Öræfi has been closed off due to weather. This means the road to the South and South East from Kirkjubæjarklaustur towards the Glacier Lagoon. The weather is said to be "dangerous to travellers." 5 Almost thirty earthquakes occurred in North Iceland and the ocean north of Iceland last night. The largest earthquake of the swarm occcured at 2.30 AM at a magnitude of 3.0. Its origins were around 20 km North East of Siglufjörður. Currency