GMT+2 04:48 Home News Xiaomi Redmi Notice 4X, Xiaomi Mi Max, and extra receiving MIUI 9.5 World Steady ROM Xiaomi Redmi Notice 4X, Xiaomi Mi Max, and extra receiving MIUI 9.5 World Steady ROM Xiaomi Redmi Notice 4X, Xiaomi Mi Max, and extra receiving MIUI 9.5 World Steady ROM Posted By: admin on: Print Contents three. Mid April: Mi Notice 2, Mi 5s, Mi MIX, Mi Notice three, Mi 5s Plus, Redmi Notice 2, Redmi three, Redmi four, Mi three, Mi four In November, Xiaomi launched the global version of MIUI 9. The replace started rolling out to the primary batch of telephones in the identical month, starting with the Xiaomi Redmi Note 4 . Then, in January, the corporate began rolling-out the MIUI 9.2 World Steady replace to supported devices , together with the Redmi Notice three. 
5 months after its launch, Xiaomi India Managing Director Manu Kumar Jain acknowledged that the MIUI 9 World Steady ROM has been released for all supported Xiaomi India devices , together with almost four-year-old telephones such because the Redmi 1s and the Xiaomi Mi 3 . #MIUI 9.5 World Steady ROM Begins Rolling Out: Redmi Notice 4X, Mi Max and Extra! See extra: https://t.co/IPFA96p518 pic.twitter.com/B7vTQ98Yvg 
— MIUI (@miuirom) March 20, 2018 
Now, Xiaomi has introduced that MIUI 9.5 Gobal Steady ROM has began rolling out for the Redmi Notice three Qualcomm variant, Redmi Notice three Particular Version, Redmi Notice four Qualcomm variant (Redmi Notice 4X), Mi Max and Mi Max Prime. The OTA replace is being rolled out step by step, and the corporate mentions that it’ll launch the replace to all customers as quickly as potential. 
The MIUI 9.5 World Steady replace lastly brings notifications in MIUI on-par with stock Android . In December, we noticed the MIUI Developer ROM had added help for Android Nougat’s inline replies in notifications, bundled notifications, and one-finger gesture to increase notifications. Three months later, the replace has arrived within the World Steady ROM. 
Xiaomi has additionally launched the discharge schedule for MIUI 9.5 World Steady ROM. This month, the replace will likely be rolled-out to the Redmi 3S, Redmi four Prime, Redmi 4A and Redmi Notice four MediaTek variant as properly. The second and third batch of gadgets will get the replace in early April and late April respectively. The total launch schedule is detailed beneath. 1. Late March: Redmi Notice three Particular Version, Redmi Notice three Qualcomm, Redmi Notice four Qualcomm/Redmi Notice 4X, Mi Max, Mi Max Prime, Redmi 3S, Redmi four Prime, Redmi 4A and Redmi Notice four MTK 2. Early April: Redmi Notice 5A Prime/Redmi Y1, Redmi Notice 5A/Redmi Y1 Lite, Redmi 5A, Redmi 5 Plus, Redmi Notice 5, Redmi 5, Mi Max 2, Mi 5, Redmi 4X, Mi 6 and Mi MIX 2 three. Mid April: Mi Notice 2, Mi 5s, Mi MIX, Mi Notice three, Mi 5s Plus, Redmi Notice 2, Redmi three, Redmi four, Mi three, Mi four 