Home News Killer Bluetooth earbuds simply $29.99 with unique promo code Killer Bluetooth earbuds simply $29.99 with unique promo code Killer Bluetooth earbuds simply $29.99 with unique promo code Posted By: admin on: Print Contents On the lookout for a brand new telephone or plan? Begin right here with the Android Authority Plan Software: 
Wi-fi Earbuds are large at AAPicks towers proper now. We simply hold discovering nice offers. This is likely to be the very best of the lot. 
Plantronics Backbeat 100 Wi-fi Earbuds are presently on provide at DailySteals.com. Should you’re after high-quality wi-fi earbuds with out making Dr Dre any richer, these are the headphones for you. 
Proper now they’re down from $80 to simply $34.99 . It’s music to our ears (pun meant). 
BackBeat 100 earbuds are so gentle you would possibly simply overlook you’re carrying them. 
They could be wi-fi, however there’s a slim non-slip neckband to make sure they don’t come out into your espresso. There’s little likelihood of that anyway, as you’re given totally different sized buds to guarantee a snug match and block out background noise successfully . While you’re not utilizing them, magnets within the buds hold them clipped collectively spherical your neck. 
Battery-wise they definitely don’t disappoint. Even with steady listening , you will get as much as eight hours of motion on a single cost. 
You’ll be able to take calls on these wi-fi earbuds too. You’re notified by a discreet vibration, and aided by the noise and echo-reduction expertise . You’ll be able to even take the decision in only one bud, if you happen to actually don’t wish to absolutely halt your listening expertise. 
Let’s face it, they appear fairly scorching too. 
There’s yet another piece of fine information for you deal lovers: We’ve bought a promo code to save lots of you one other $5 . While you add collectively all this low cost motion, you possibly can choose up these wi-fi earbuds for simply $29.99 . That’s a 63% saving. 
To select-up your pair of earbuds whereas they’re nonetheless in inventory, AND so as to add our additional low cost, hit the button under. Click to reveal promo code! 
The AAPicks group writes about issues we predict you’ll like, and we may even see a share of income from any purchases made via affiliate hyperlinks. To see all our hottest offers, head over to the AAPICKS HUB . On the lookout for a brand new telephone or plan? Begin right here with the Android Authority Plan Software: This sensible software enables you to filter plans by telephone, value, information tiers, and regional availability. Cease overpaying for cell service you hate and a telephone that you simply’re uninterested in. Use our Compare Phones & Plans tool to totally customise your cell expertise and painlessly transition from one service to a different! 