Home News Newest Galaxy J7 Duo leak reveals specs Newest Galaxy J7 Duo leak reveals specs Newest Galaxy J7 Duo leak reveals specs Posted By: admin on: Galaxy J7 Duo leaked specs 
An unreleased Samsung gadget bearing mannequin quantity SM-J720F was found a few weeks in the past in an inventory on the FCC which advised that Samsung had a new J series handset in the pipeline . Subsequent stories have revealed that this gadget goes to be launched because the Galaxy J7 Duo. It’s doubtless going to fit in between the Galaxy J7 (2017) and the Galaxy J7 Professional. 
A brand new leak has surfaced at this time which reveals a few of the handset’s specs, confirming hypothesis that that is going to be a bonafide mid-range gadget. It’s additionally going to the be the primary price range handset from Samsung this 12 months to ship with Android Eight.zero Oreo out of the field. Galaxy J7 Duo leaked specs 
A photograph from a gross sales coaching session for the upcoming Galaxy J7 Duo seems to have been leaked on-line and it mentions a few of the core specs of this gadget. If the leak is something to go by, the Galaxy J7 Duo will characteristic a 5.5-inch HD Tremendous AMOLED show and a 1.6GHz octa-core processor with 4GB of RAM and 32GB of storage. 
It’ll assist exterior reminiscence enlargement as much as 256GB. The LTE-compatible handset will even have a 13-megapixel + 5-megapixel twin rear digicam and Eight-megapixel entrance digicam with a three,000mAh battery. We reported yesterday that the first firmware for the Galaxy J7 Duo are now available on-line and that confirmed that that is going to be the primary price range smartphone from Samsung in 2018 to ship with Oreo out of the field. The leaked picture reiterates this as nicely. 
The firmware recordsdata which might be out there for this handset are for markets that embody Turkey, India, UAE, Sri Lanka, Nepal and Bangladesh. These are doubtless going to be the entire markets the place this handset will likely be launched. 
This will even be the primary price range gadget from Samsung to get Bixby however since it doesn’t have a dedicated Bixby button , the AI expertise on the Galaxy J7 Duo will likely be restricted to Bixby House. Samsung is but to substantiate when it’s going to launch the Galaxy J7 Duo however it looks as if it received’t be lengthy earlier than this handset is made official. 