Print Some of the fashionable makes use of of Apktool, a device which lets you decompile Android functions so you can also make modifications, is to switch the Android framework-res.apk. This app, known as the Android Framework, is chargeable for offering a lot of the property, colours, photographs, and configuration values in your gadget. As an example, you may modify framework-res to enable or disable round icon support . Making modifications to framework-res has required a little bit of effort till PrivSet got here alongside. PrivSet , made by XDA Senior Member sir mordred , is a helpful root app for altering Android framework values with no need to make use of Apktool. 
It really works by redirecting Android to attract useful resource values from an overlay it creates for the framework-res.apk. If you happen to’re conversant in Substratum , PrivSet works in the identical means because it’s primarily based on an overlay utilizing RRO (for Android Marshmallow and Nougat) and OMS ( Android Oreo ). Thus, there’s no must immediately modify the framework-res in any respect because the values are learn from the overlay and never from the unique framework-res.apk. 
It allows customers to alter many Android framework values associated to settings coping with four-way rotation, forcing rounded corners for all apps, altering what the cellphone does when customers double press the ability button, and extra. Customers must restart their gadget after making use of adjustments. They’ll additionally select to reset all their adjustments and begin over. It must be famous that PrivSet permits the person to generate overlays for altering solely these framework values which are literally current within the gadget’s framework-res.apk. It does this by studying the system properties of the person’s gadget. 
After we beforehand coated this app, it didn’t have help for Android Oreo. Now, it has been up to date with help for Android 8.0 and Android eight.1 Oreo. It’s price noting that PrivSet doesn’t have a rootless mode for Android Oreo but. In line with the developer, it’s a work-in-progress, and it’s one thing that ought to are available future updates. 