18 March 2018, 18:39 Doctors and teachers threatened into voting at presidential elections in Sochi 
Employees of budgetary organizations in Sochi were threatened into voting at certain polling stations and forced to hand over the "flyers" received after the voting, the "Caucasian Knot" correspondent has found out. 
Sochi's state employees told that their employers ordered them to come with absentee coupons to certain polling stations in the morning and vote. After that, they had to show as evidence the "flyers" with the inscription "Thank you for your choice!". 
Among such people there were employees of administrations, doctors, teachers, and military men. 
"I was told at work that it was necessary to prove that I had voted, otherwise I won't be paid a bonus," said an employee of a municipal enterprise. 
"It's just crazy what is happening here! In just two hours, 700 people have voted here!" said Ivan, an observer at one of the polling stations. He suggested that these voters are "budget workers". 
"I heard people say that they took photos of their ballot papers and sent them to their bosses via WhatsApp to show who they voted for," said Sergei Dotsenko, a voter. 
Coercion to vote is punishable under the law. 
  Author: Svetlana Kravchenko ; Source: CK correspondent e21f6204 All news; Politics; Human rights; Society; South Federal District; Russia; Krasnodar region All news 
Today, the Supreme Court (SC) of Chechnya has upheld the decision of the Staropromyslovsky District Court of Grozny to prolong the arrest of Oyub Titiev, the "Caucasian Knot" correspondent was informed by Pyotr Zaikin, an advocate of Oyub Titiev. March 19, 2018 13:23 
Despite the dissatisfaction of Sochi residents with coercion to participate in the presidential election, no official complaints were filed by voters, the opposition reports. March 19, 2018 09:42 Grozny state servants claim being forced to take part in a rally 
In the evening on March 18, in Grozny, about 70,000 people came for a rally dedicated to the anniversary of the Crimea's entry into Russia, the Chechen authorities reported. Teachers and students claimed being obliged to take part in the rally. March 19, 2018 05:26 Volgograd Communists call elections falsified 
Observers from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) have filed "dozens of complaints" following the results of the voting at the presidential election. On March 20, the Communists plan to hold a sanctioned picket against falsifications of the election outcome. March 19, 2018 02:10 Observer announces three attempts of ballot stuffing at a polling station in Kaspiysk 
Marat Ismailov, an observer from the "Yabloko" Party, registered three facts of ballot stuffing (throw-in) at a polling station in Kaspiysk. According to him, when he tried to stop a ballot stuffing, unidentified people wanted to take him outside, but the police intervened. The final protocol was also drawn up with violations, Marat Ismailov also noted. TOPICS OF THE DAY