Image: Body: 
Economic results of 2017 indicate that The Hague is becoming an increasingly popular destination within the MICE industry, according to a report by The Hague Convention Bureau . 
In this report, THCB presents its middle and long-term strategy on making The Hague the second city in the Netherlands when it comes to hosting international meetings and conferences and is thus building upon previous successes. 
As stated by the Netherlands Board of Tourism and Conventions (NBTC), The Hague has hosted 149 international meetings in 2017 which is an increase of 10% in comparison to the year before. On average, delegates spent 4.6 days in the city, which is 22% more than in 2016. An economic impact of €70 million corresponds to a growth of 69% compared to 2014. 
Being home to more than 200 international organisations, The Hague resembles a highly cosmopolitan flair and a diverse knowledge cluster. 
Karsten Klein, Deputy Mayor of The Hague, states that “ it is vital to attract international conferences and visitors to our city. The Hague is the International City of Peace and Justice, a global hub and frontrunner in sectors such as cyber security. Conferences and events that are brought to The Hague should fit in the profile of the city and reflect what it stands for ”. Klein continues in stating that “ structural funding on city branding and campaigns are needed to foster a positive image of The Hague ”. 
The proactive approach of The Hague Convention Bureau (THCB) and its strong collaboration with an outstanding network of partners has boosted the city’s reputation as a highly desirable destination. In 2017, THCB’s experience and expertise in building a case has brought 47 conferences to The Hague, corresponding to an economic impact of €47,676,000. 
Last year, THCB’s efforts have been recognised by numerous prestigious prizes such as the Silver M&IT award for Best Overseas Convention Bureau, the MIMA Award in the category Best Use of Video Marketing, and two C&IT awards. THCB, which has been shortlisted for the 2017 European Excellence Award, will continue to work towards The Hague becoming one of the world’s top 50 event destinations.