Image: Body: 
Meeting Professionals International (MPI) has selected Grapevine, Texas, as the destination for its World Education Congress (WEC) in 2020. The association will collaborate with the Grapevine Convention and Visitors Bureau to host the conference, which is scheduled for June 6 – 9, 2020, at the Gaylord Texan Resort and Convention Center. Grapevine is centrally located between Fort Worth and Dallas, where MPI is headquartered. 
WEC is MPI’s signature event through which it delivers premier education, business and networking opportunities in North America. It attracts more than 2,000 attendees annually, including corporate, third party, and association planners, suppliers, students, industry faculty and more. MPI follows a competitive request for proposal (RFP) process for its signature events and considers factors such as location benefits, meeting venue facilities, pricing, hotel offerings, destination accessibility, unique options and local support. 
“ We are elated to partner with the Grapevine CVB to bring WEC to Grapevine in 2020. This is a great opportunity to showcase some of the unique venues and charm of North Texas, which I have had the pleasure of enjoying since relocating here when I joined MPI almost five years ago ,” said Paul Van Deventer, president and CEO of MPI. “ With the Gaylord Texan, we will be able to host and house the majority of our attendees under one roof, and they will also have easy travel access with the nearby Dallas/Fort Worth International Airport and Dallas Love Field Airport .” 
The City of Grapevine features a historic downtown district, special event venues with more than one million square feet of meeting space and 20 hotels with 5,400-plus hotel rooms. It is also home to the Grapevine Urban Wine and Craft Brew Trail, has three public golf courses, including the Cowboys Golf Club, the world’s only NFL-themed golf course, and was named a “World Festival and Event City” by the International Festival and Events Association in 2012. 
“ Grapevine has an international reputation as a top meetings destination and we look forward to welcoming MPI’s members for the 2020 World Education Congress ,” said Brady Closson, managing director of sales and marketing, Grapevine Convention and Visitors Bureau. “ Grapevine’s rich history and warm hospitality give attendees an authentic Texas experience as they immerse themselves in our city’s world-class accommodations and meeting facilities. For those that have the opportunity, Grapevine has a full range of attractions, unique shopping and dining, nightlife and so much to see and do. We encourage attendees to explore our incredible destination .” 
The year 2020 will mark the second time MPI’s WEC has been held in the Dallas/Fort Worth metroplex. In 2006, WEC was hosted at the Dallas Convention Center, which was renamed the Kay Bailey Hutchison Convention Center in 2013. 
“ There is a bit of comfort knowing we will be hosting WEC in our own backyard. Plus, we have strong local support from the MPI Dallas/Fort Worth Chapter ,” added Van Deventer. 
This year’s WEC will be held June 2 – 5, 2018, at the Indiana Conference Center in Indianapolis. To learn more or register for WEC18, visit www.mpiweb.org/wec-2018 .