Hotel Equities Selected to Operate Courtyard Winston-Salem, NC New-Build Hotel to Feature Rooftop Bar in Heart of Downtown 
Atlanta-based Hotel Equities announced its selection as the management firm for a new-build Courtyard by Marriott as part of a development project in downtown Winston-Salem, North Carolina. Developed by Commercial Realty Advisors, LLC of Winston-Salem and Clarendon Properties of Wilmington, NC, the 126-room property is scheduled to break ground in May. 
Located at 640 W. 4 th Street in the heart of Winston-Salem, NC, the Courtyard will feature a rooftop bar with views of the surrounding downtown area. As the home of Wake Forest, University as well as the corporate headquarters of the prominent banking firm BB&T, Winston-Salem enjoys its status as both a college town and a business and medical hub. 
"We see great potential for Courtyard by Marriott in a well-connected and thriving area of downtown Winston-Salem," said Greg Presley, Vice President of Business Development for Hotel Equities. "We are pleased to expand our management portfolio in North Carolina with the addition of a unique, purpose-built property. Our award-winning guest service and management expertise will deliver value to our owner and guests alike." 
The hotel features a rooftop bar, expansive courtyard and more than 1,500 square feet of meeting and banquet space in a building architecturally designed to complement adjacent properties and the surrounding neighborhood. In addition to the hotel's rooftop terrace with its panoramic views of the city, amenities include a full-service bistro, swimming pool and fitness center. The hotel is expected to open in late 2019. 
"We are excited to bring a trusted and popular Marriott brand to an integral part of downtown Winston-Salem under top-notch management by Hotel Equities," said John E. Reece II, managing partner with Commercial Realty Advisors, LLC. 
"We look forward to engaging with the downtown community and nurturing our relationship with Wake Forest University," said John Sandlin , president of Clarendon Properties. 
Contact Director of Communications &MarketingPhone: +1 678 678.4444, x19 
Hotel Development Partners (HDP) is an Atlanta-based hospitality company with 12 existing hotels in Atlanta, Miami Beach and N. Charleston, SC. This includes 10 Marriott branded hotels and two more under development. Principals are Robert J. McCarthy, Allen T. O"Brien and Frederick W. Cerrone. For more information, visit www.hotelequities.com. 
Hotel Equities (HE) is an Atlanta-based full-service hotel ownership, management and development firm operating more than 100 hotels throughout North America. Frederick W. Cerrone, CHA, serves as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Brad Rahinsky serves as President and Chief Operating Officer. For more information, visit www.hotelequities.com .