Ex-detainees recount US torture 15yrs after Iraq invasion — RT US News Ex-detainees recount US torture 15yrs after Iraq invasion — RT US News By 0 85 
Former Abu Ghraib detainees say time has not fully healed the physical and mental pain they suffered at the infamous US prison. Iraqis spoke with RT on the 15th anniversary of the US-led invasion of their country. 
Read more 
“The time I spent in that prison felt like a lifetime. An hour of that pain, humiliation, and injustice stays with you forever,” Anwer Al-Sudani, a former Abu Ghraib detainee, told RT. 
Once used by Saddam Hussein to lock up political dissidents, Abu Ghraib prison was converted into a US Army detention facility shortly after the US-led invasion of Iraq in March 2003. 
In April 2004, photographs showing prisoners being subjected to torture, sexual humiliation, rape, and other forms of abuse at the hands of US soldiers were leaked to the press. 
The facility, located about 20 miles west of Baghdad, held as many as 3,800 detainees at the height of its use by the US military. In 2006, all remaining detainees at Abu Ghraib were transferred to other prisons, and the facility was handed over to the Iraqi government. More than a decade has passed since the US relinquished control of the infamous prison, but former inmates say the physical and mental scars from their time at the facility have not yet healed. 
“I still have nightmares and suffer physical and mental pain, as if it all happened yesterday,” Ali Al Qasi, a former inmate at the prison, told RT. 
I work night and day to try to forget it. What we went through, and what happened to Iraq, was a terrible crime. It broke us. Even now I can’t get inside a bathtub because it makes me think of waterboarding. 
“After I was released, whenever I saw Americans on the street, I would be terrified they would send me back to that place and torture me again. It still keeps me up at night, remembering the torture. I hear the screams,” Emad Al-Lamy, another former detainee, told RT. 
“They would hang a prisoner on the metal door of the cell, and subject him to electrocution or urination. They would stick a rifle into sensitive areas, or they would use a broken broomstick, causing internal bleeding. Prisoners would need surgery,” Al Qasi recalled. 
According to Al Qasi, every person who was detained at the facility, including children, “was subjected to violations, torture, sexual abuse, humiliation, rape, and lots of other bad things.” 
I saw a child; they raped him in front of his father. These interrogators [were] by the contractors, they committed horrible crimes. I can never forget the electrocution too. It almost felt as though fire would come out of my eyes. I don’t know. It’s something you can’t forget. 
According to Major General Antonio Taguba, who led the formal inquiry into prisoner abuse at Ab Ghraib, an estimated 2,000 photographs taken at the infamous prison and six other facilities across Iraq and Afghanistan depict “torture, abuse, rape, and every indecency.” 
Taguba’s internal inquiry into the abuses at Abu Ghraib included sworn statements by 13 detainees, which he described as “credible based on the clarity of their statements and supporting evidence provided by other witnesses.” 
Among the graphic testimonies, which were later released under Freedom of Information Act requests, is that of Kasim Mehaddi Hilas, who said: “I saw [name of a translator] **