Home / policy / Political winter will be long Political winter will be long 5 hours ago policy 4 Views 
What international companies were Putin after the popular vote 18.03.18 can be judged by the first in the congratulations that came in the night from 18 for March 19 and early morning 19.03.18. Those heads of state who congratulated Putin from the heart, without waiting for a final summing up. Show completely… So Putin himself, for example, twice congratulated Yanukovych, the loser in 2004. However, then Putin’s support turned into curiosity for Yanukovych, and 10 years later this support was a tragedy for Ukraine and Russia… 
So, here is a list of the hasty heart and congratulator: Maduro (Venezuela), Nazarbayev (Kazakhstan), Raul Castro (Cuba), XI Jinping (China), Lukashenko (Belarus), Aliyev (Azerbaijan), Igor Dodon (Moldova), Zheenbekov (Kyrgyzstan), Vucic (Serbia). These countries and their rulers is hardly democratic, and in most of these countries, elections are difficult to call the elections. Putin and his 76,67% looks quite organically, and even decent on the background of the Nazarbayev (of 97.75%), Aliev (84,54%), Lukashenko (83,49%), and Raul Castro, who voted for 97.7% of members of Parliament or of comrade XI, who voted for all 3 thousand delegates of the national people’s Congress meeting, with the exception of one vote against and three abstentions. 
The procedure of Putin’s reelection for a fifth term was significantly different from all previous means quite significant changes in design mode and the change in his relationship with a subordinate population. Discarded all shame and decency. Finally gone all sorts of nonsense, like all “social contracts” with the population, and even among particular groups of the population who consider themselves “elites”. To talk, and especially about something to negotiate Putin with anyone not going. Gone are the days when he promised the population a rich life in exchange for it, the public, non-interference in politics, and the “elites” were granted immunity in exchange for loyalty. See also: As I in childhood used for political purposes, and how it ended 
Now no contracts none. Putin gave the Russians a drug Imperial “pride.”“Pride” because we, Russians, are the coolest, we can kill everyone on the planet, and all of us fear. The only skill possessed by Putin, is the art of recruitment. He often boasted that he loves this activity, to recruit, to catch human souls. On the way to power, Putin has used different recruitment methods: using the dirt, the money, the “honey trap”… all this, much has been written. Experienced recruiter, Putin is well aware that it is easier to recruit and to bend the will of the addict. To bend the will of the people, Putin in 2014 has placed him on the “Krymnash” and then all the time increased the dose and involved increasingly hard drugs: “LDNR”, “Russia”, “Russian world”, Syria, the message of the cartoons, which our fantastic rockets destroy the globe. 
Since no agreement with anyone the new term of Putin is not envisaged, Putin first went to the polls, not having the election program. What could be the program, the drug dealer that gives a thrill and takes his soul? In order to catch the souls of Russians to Putin this time did not took the bait. He caught them on a bare hook. See also: Alexander Minkin: Inclement political weather 
Putin is not and cannot be a program. He has no idea what he will do to the country tomorrow, because he do not care for the country and the world. He is only interested in their own lives and well-being, which in the current situation, are inextricably linked with the preservation of power. Therefore, the government will be Putin’s lifelong. The results of the voting showed that the country remained a viable opposition that could prevent Putin to keep his power, to the grave. 
The political landscape behind the figures of the CEC, looks like a lifeless desert, in which not a single sprout of hope. The belief that this is all the result of distortions and fraud, is untenable. Fraud has been a lot, but they only slightly altered the pattern, which in the case of exact calculation would be as hopeless. 
Despair is a bad counselor. March 19 in Russia, despite the calendar, winter started, which is likely to be long. Political winter, can be used in different ways. You can hibernate. You can start to drink bitter. You can sit out the cold in a warmer climate. And you can think about how to keep life and warmth in these conditions and begin to heat your house, street, city and country…  