Home / policy / Let’s summarize yesterday’s vote Let’s summarize yesterday’s vote 19 hours ago policy 2 Views 
Let’s sum up the results of yesterday’s vote. Here are a few thoughts that I want to share. 
1. The result of these “elections” will have no effect on our lives. It was a formal procedure and Putin himself treated her completely formal. He ignored the debates, did not hold meetings with voters and most of the campaign remained silent. Show completely… In fact, instead of elections, we received an administrative operation on his reappointment. With interest Putin does not need to trick anybody: he is a weak politician who is afraid of competition. Tolerance Navalny would give the election campaign the real drama and would enhance the legitimacy of its outcome. But to do this, Putin would have to fight the election seriously. He was not ready. 
2. The power in these “elections” were decided by a single goal: increasing turnout. It was a response to the proposed strike of the Bulk of voters. Fearing a direct competition, the Kremlin chose this here correspondence competition: you, like, convince people not to go to the polls, and we’ll catch up the crowd into sections and show you its power. In reality, how people were forced to vote, freed from all illusions. If a real election, voters makes no sense to force them to participate. When there is a real alternative and competition, when there is unexpected results — people will come at no extra motivation without the carrots and sticks, no free sandwiches and threats of dismissal. See also: The power of darkness 
3. To solve their problem honestly the power failed. I carefully watched the reports of observers and the whole day could not shake the feeling of deja vu, as if back in December 2011. Lots of video with stuffing, bussing of voters and other fraud. Crooks didn’t hesitate: bundles of ballots thrown directly under the official cameras of the CEC live. Very dirty job showing the degradation of the electoral system. 
4. At the same time to challenge the results no one. “Opposition” candidates were chosen by the administration so to eliminate any risks. None of them pretended that it was trying to compete with Putin. Meaningful discussion did not exist, the debate turned into a farce. Was created the background against which the current President was supposed to look respectable and attractive. 
5. On the democratic wing were selected the candidates that, in principle, could not receive more than 1-2%. For Yavlinsky is a humiliation (down to 1%, two times less than the result of his party in 2016) should be a lesson how important it is time to leave and keep his dignity. But I was genuinely upset that she was dragged into this shameful game. Yesterday, at the exit from the polling station, she said that no violations have many videos stuffing may be a fake, but in General, elections have become more fair and transparent. For this final statement, apparently, and had invented the story of her nomination. For the legitimacy of Putin’s little enthusiasm Solovyov and Kiseleva on TV, little resolution of Ella Pamfilova — it is important that “the opposition candidate” acknowledged his victory fair. And Xenia, unfortunately, did. See also: Elena Letuchaya found in the Voronezh hospital mold and cockroaches 
6. Everything that happened, on the idea of the Kremlin, should you and demotivate. Try to convince us that we are strangers in Russia that our ideas do not survive here. This lies and manipulation: don’t give in and don’t despair. Remember — when the real independent opposition is seeking participation in the elections, the results are not such as yesterday. Proof of this are the 27% Navalny in Moscow, victory Nemtsov in Yaroslavl and Roizman in Yekaterinburg, 7 of the 10 mandates “Solidarity” in the Central municipality. 
7. Our country has a future. But he still have to fight, and this struggle will not be easy. However, the good news is that progress has historically always triumphs over obscurantism. And we should be proud that you fight on the side of light.  