Home / policy / What to do after the election What to do after the election 19 hours ago policy 1 Views 
Well, that ended Comedy Delmare. Now serious. 
The controversy of the last days — Sobchak, Grigory Yavlinsky or the boycott will be forgotten quickly. But the way Putin is still long. To live it you can feel a little bit more — and the regime will collapse. Since the Medvedev interlude, and certainly with a hot winter 2011-12 we constantly hear about it. Show more… However, the illusion is not confirmed. And it throws in a different extreme. The worst thing that makes Putin’s regime, he denied hope to those who are inclined to think seriously. By leaps and bounds, a growing number of intellectuals, saying that our country is hopeless, that it’s filled with cotton wool, that blood of a slave culture, and what better way to save at least their children from the wretched existence, to get out of here as soon as possible and as far as possible. This hopelessness around, I did not feel even in the Brezhnev era. See also: Lindsay Lohan relaxes on a yacht after fight with boyfriend 
Don’t want to say that this mindset is our main problem, but that is still distant the moment when the window opens political opportunities for change, much will depend on the attitude of intellectuals. I, as a researcher, analyst and publicist, can’t do anything to that window that opened early, but something else to do now. 
My scientific specialization is to understand why Russia for many centuries went this way and not otherwise. My job is to compare our path with the path of other countries and analyze the causes of the backlog. My book is currently in the process of formation, dedicated to the unending efforts of our ancestors and contemporaries to find some special way leading to a great goal, but really — nowhere. 
The knowledge that has been accumulated for a quarter century, studies of modernization, show that all the failures of Russia and all its mistaken path was never fatal. Every bad turn, no matter how stupid he is, has rational reasons and absolutely not associated with such mythical Russian terms, as inborn slavery, stupidity and the tendency to imperstvo. And every turn to reforms was not accidental thaw, and natural movement to Europe. See also: The settlement of Ukrainians in Russia and its interesting features 
These findings cannot be explained in a nutshell. Need many articles and books to write which will take years. But still I want to persuade dozens, hundreds or thousands of thoughtful readers that we are developing that season come and go, and that “Russia will be free sooner or later”, as I once wrote Boris Nemtsov on the title page of his book. 
This is my personal program for the future. This is my personal Manifesto. This is my personal attempt to make what is actually humanly possible. Without fantasy and without despair. 
Dmitry Travin, a Professor at the European University in Saint-Petersburg  