Home / Society / Elections in the Soviet Union Elections in the Soviet Union 19 hours ago Society 1 Views 
Elections – that’s a great reason to return to the memories of the land of Soviets. Because the elections in the Land – it was quite a show. Along the way, reluctantly, will have to go back to the sausage thread. What? What does the sausage to the election? Generally speaking, the sausage to the election has nothing to do… unless of course we are not talking about elections in the USSR. But in the Soviet Union elections and the sausage was very closely linked. However, more on that below. 
What I don’t understand is the resentment, which covers today many fans of the Soviet past. They, you know, the threat of democracy. Everywhere you hear: “Elections are unfair!”, “The results of the vote a foregone conclusion!” etc. etc. Strangely, when such words are pronounced by those who love to reminisce about how wonderful life was in the Soviet Union. Why is that strange? Yes, because what is now called “Elections” is just a total binge freedoms compared to what it was in the USSR. How quick, however, forgotten. 
In the USSR had elections, as if to say, not that there is dishonest or fraudulent, and, strictly speaking, there never has been. Why? Yes, because every Soviet citizen had to choose a candidate from the list that consisted of… one person. 
Strange but true – this ritual idiocy regular full staff performed the whole country. People went to polling stations where they were handed ballots that had only one name. No fees signatures for registration of candidates, no campaigning. All was grandly, peacefully and gently. At some time before the population ever that this election will be held. At the same time it was reported, who will be the candidate from a particular site. The biography of this man, printed on coated paper, hung on the doorways of houses. Not sure I read anyone the biographies of these uncontested candidates? I personally never occurred. Because everyone knew that if someone’s biography appeared under the title “Your candidate”, this person will be elected. Just because others do not. No competition. 
The elections were at different levels. “Selected” members of the Supreme Council, the elected members of local councils, chose judges. And always the procedure was the same: to notify people hanging out the biography of the candidate, the campaign to the polling station, receiving a ballot with one name, cast it into the ballot box. 
As the year I first took part in the elections (18 years) – can’t remember which – I came to the polling station and was surprised that I, along with the newsletter gave excellent book “the Organizers of the wartime”. So I was greeted with my first “election”. The book that I never read. But for a long time I have gathering dust in the closet. By the way, the name of the candidate in the ballot, I did not read. And who when reading these names? 
And were taken from the “candidates” in the elections? This tells us the article 100 of the Constitution of the USSR: “the Right of promotion of candidates belongs to organizations of the Communist party of the Soviet Union, trade unions, the all-Union Leninist Communist Youth League, cooperative and other public organizations, labor collectives, and meetings of servicemen in military units”. And since all these “labour collectives” and other such structures were under the complete control of its party Committee, it is, in fact, the right to nominate candidates to deputies of the USSR was only Communist party. Or, to put it simply, the Communist party appointed the members of the “telescoping” and arranging uncontested voting. 
The head of state, by the way – even nominally – Soviet citizens did not choose. The highest organ of state power in the land of Soviets is the Supreme Council of the USSR (article 108 of the Constitution of the USSR). And on behalf of the USSR Supreme Soviet on a permanent basis operated the so-called Presidium of the Supreme Soviet with a Chairman at the head. This Presidium was elected by the Supreme Council (articles 119 and 120 of the Constitution of the USSR). That is, we had such a scheme: the Communist party appointed deputies, the formal legitimization which occurred through “General elections” and then “elected” deputies “elected” own the podium. Needless to say that the deputies acted just like a good monkey and vote for candidates appointed by the Communist party structures. See also: About the lame Soviet culture 
By the way, because technically, if we follow literally the letter of the Constitution of the USSR, Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR was not a head of state, because (article 119), the Presidium was accountable to the Supreme Council, i.e., was formally the Executive body the highest state organ of the USSR. And since appointment, the Chairman of the Supreme Council did not exist – and the position of the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Council assumed the leadership of the presidency, but not the Supreme Council in General – and head of state in the USSR as it did not exist. Therefore, only the Politburo of the CPSU Central Committee to regulate when and under what circumstances the Chairman of the Presidium of the USSR plays the role of the President, and when acting on stage is the true head of the USSR – the General Secretary of the CPSU Central Committee. 
Until 1977 this ambiguity does not prescribe. But with the adoption in 1977 of the new Constitution of the USSR this fact was spelled out in article 6: “the leading and guiding force of Soviet society and the nucleus of its political system, state and public organizations is the Communist party of the Soviet Union.” As they say, the mask was dropped. 
However, ordinary Soviet people was deeply spit on all this legal casuistry, and they well knew that the General Secretary in the USSR and is “the most important”. And what of the post thus combines the General Secretary – it was not important. 
For example, Brezhnev as head of the Communist party in 1964 (first as the First Secretary, and since 1966 as the General Secretary) has resigned the Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet (as it was under Khrushchev). However, it Brezhnev carried the entire domestic and foreign policy. On all the important foreign appointments and signing of contracts went to Brezhnev. And only in 1977 Brezhnev was again “elected” Chairman of the Presidium of the USSR Supreme Soviet (PDCS). Also came after Brezhnev and Andropov – he became General Secretary in November 1982 and immediately began to steer the Soviet Union. PPVS but it was only in the summer of 1983, i.e. more than six months later. But this, again, the details are purely conventional. In fact, everything in the USSR knew that the General Secretary of the CPSU – this is the most important person in the country. Citizens of the USSR that person never chose. Even members of the Communist party is not directly elected General Secretary. 
Incidentally, in the early 70-ies, at least in Moscow, there was such a strange thing as going candidate. It really was kind of absurd – after all, candidate was not no competition, since he became a candidate, automatically became a member. The campaign was not necessary. However went. Well, in General, people were nice. To them comes into the house of the candidate or his / her assistant (agitator), says something, promises to help, etc. 
Here’s a scene from the Soviet film “July rain” (1966), which shows the operation of the agitator to the next election. 
According to these personnel is a mere formality. To go, to meet, to recall the date and place of the election, if necessary, to listen to the memories of youth, or “parting of the voters.” When we lived on the Arbat, came to us. Later on, I already do not remember. See also: Tillerson: "the Russian intervention" in U.S. elections "well documented" 
The enchanting election in which I was involved, took place in the army. It was in the first six months of service, when I was in basic training. The political officer of the regiment went to companies and explained to us how the next day will be “voting”. We were shocked that since election Day is a manifestation of an unheard of genuine Soviet democracy, we lift this day. That is absolutely. Every soldier he wakes up without it, “Roth, rise!”, he will dress up without a team outside the building leave the barracks, I’m leaping quietly to the club of the regiment, where their own without any prompting will make the choice of a single “candidate”. And then also independently outside the system, you can return to the company. Lyapota! 
We do not believe such nowhere fallen on us happiness. There is no recovery! This means sleep as much as you want. The officer immediately said – although there is no recovery will not be anybody to tell nothing, but by 7 a.m. the whole regiment voted. “And who do not vote to 7, can be hung,” said after he left the company commander. 
The next morning, really no rise. But since it is already 6 am in the middle of the barracks was a soldier, and with all the stupid urine play the accordion different songs by Soviet composers, sleep had no chance. So we quickly got up and the herd went to the polls, fearing to be late back to company to 7 hours. The whole regiment voted, it seems, already half of the seventh. That’s what I understand – the outburst of Soviet democracy. Not that in the United States. 
In the photo: Soviet citizens look at a photo stand dedicated to the new President of the United States, placed on the wall of the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, November 1980 . 
Yeah, and what’s the sausage? Here it is hiding the most interesting. Where there is current strategists virtuosity agitators of the Council of Deputies. Here they are struggling today, struggling, calling, using all of the channels people go to the polls, and turnout is still far from the Soviet level of 99%. And in the Land of the turnout was almost one hundred percent. And not because of fear. No one is scared of the heavenly punishments for failure to appear at the polls. Such idiocy that people have offered to photograph their own ballots – no, this was not. And anyway, if we do not take such structures as the army, no one is forced. Where there! Many people will hurry to be early at the polling station. What is the secret? You guessed it – sausage. The fact is that on election day, polling stations were equipped with canteens that sold every sausage-the candy deficit. And always at a polling station, people were crowding in line at the snack bar for a sausage and other outside stores, products. It’s very simple. 
And always the next day in the program “Time” the solemn voice of the announcer reported: “the bloc of Communists and non-party voted 99.9 percent”. Tenths can vary, but 99 percent remained unchanged. Sometimes I thought who were these unknown tenths of a percent, who did not want to vote for the “indestructible bloc of Communists and non-party”. But the answer to this question. 
Those were elections to the Council of deputies. And as far as elections in Russia are similar to them – it could judge every man. 
And so, a short clip to set the mood. 
A fragment of the film “Uncle Adolf nicknamed the Fuhrer” (Italy, 1978)  