Industry Update Supplier News 20 March 2018 ASSA ABLOY Hospitality Expands Innovative RFID Lock Technology to DIN and SIS Doors with New VingCard E100 Electronic Lock Developer of security solutions for hotels worldwide announces addition of VingCard E100 to its existing line of electronic locks 
Stockholm – March 20, 2018 – ASSA ABLOY Hospitality , the leading provider of innovative security technologies for the hospitality industry, announces the launch of its VingCard E100 lock, an electronic escutcheon set specifically designed to work together with lock cases that are built according to the German DIN standard (Deutsches Institut für Normung ) and Scandinavian Industry Standard (SIS). Compatible with RFID keycards, the escutcheon set was engineered with back-of-house operations in mind, and is ideal for offices and other standard hotel staff areas. 
Officially launched in February and made available throughout the EMEA region, the VingCard E100 extends the ability to offer enhanced security access throughout the entirety of a building or facility. Varying configurations of doors found within office and hotel staff areas often limit the ability to implement newer door lock solutions. The E100 serves to sidestep such issues, thanks to its narrow and minimalistic design. By offering both DIN and SIS compatibility, the E100 can be implemented on doors that feature narrow lock cases in aluminum frames. It can also be installed on sliding doors, if required. 
"We have long recognized the responsibility that building operators are tasked with when it comes to ensuring the complete safety of occupants throughout all areas under their control," said Jon Engebretsen, product manager of electronic locks at ASSA ABLOY Hospitality. "The VingCard E100 is specifically designed to uphold this commitment by extending the many advantages of RFID security technology into places that were previously out of reach." 
As with other ASSA ABLOY Hospitality RFID-based door locks, the E100 is fully compatible with Visionline and can be used in mixed installations together with the traditional VingCard mortise locks. Premium versions of the E100 can also be implemented on fire and escape route doors. ASSA ABLOY Hospitality Expands Innovative RFID Lock Technology to DIN and SIS Doors with New VingCard E100 Electronic Lock 
For more information about ASSA ABLOY Hospitality and its comprehensive line of hotel security solutions, please visit www.assaabloyhospitality.com . 
Contact President, Plan A PR & MarketingPhone: 407-905-0608 About ASSA ABLOY Hospitality 
The global leader in hotel security technology for nearly 40 years, ASSA ABLOY Hospitality is a part of the ASSA ABLOY Group, a publicly listed company with 47,000 employees. With products installed in properties all over the world, securing millions of guestrooms globally, the company's comprehensive range of security and technology solutions is comprised of VingCard electronic locks, Elsafe in-room safes, integrated software platforms and advanced mobile access solutions. Its latest innovation, ASSA ABLOY Hospitality Mobile Access provides advanced security for hotels and augments the stay experience for today's tech-savvy guests. Operating with secure Seos technology, Mobile Access allocates guestrooms and generates encrypted digital keys over a secure channel. This allows users to bypass the front desk and access their assigned guestrooms via their personal smart phones and watches. In order to provide best-in-class customer service, ASSA ABLOY Hospitality offers support in more than 166 countries worldwide. For more information, please visit www.assaabloyhospitality.com .