Hotel Furniture Removal: Principal Considerations By Lillian Connors , Senior Digital Marketing Strategist at Bizzmark 
Comments 
No other type of business relies so much on first impressions as the hospitality industry. When potential guests walk into your hotel, their first thoughts of the images in front of them will either make or break the deal. What your hotel needs to project is an image that is attractive, welcoming and inspiring, and the style and quality of the furniture will speak to your guests as much as good food and excellent service. 
Whether you're only replacing the existing furniture or moving it to a new location, there are several considerations to keep in mind in order to make the process as smooth as possible. Make a detailed inventory 
Removals can get chaotic and in order to stay on top of things as much as possible, it's advisable to have a detailed inventory of all the items you have. This can include items that need to be disassembled, those that can be grouped together and those that you can prepare in advance. It will also help you stay organised and monitor the process of moving. 
It's a good idea to load the same type of furniture in one vehicle, such as desks and chairs from the conference hall, as opposed to putting one room furniture set, one by one. It will save precious time and make the whole process more efficient. Rely on professionals 
While home removal might be a challenge you can take on by yourself, relocating all hotel furniture is extremely complex and you should leave it to the professionals, especially if you're moving across a major city, such as Sydney, for instance. You'll appreciate the expert knowledge of streets and tricky turns, and experienced pros, as these Eastern Suburbs removalists , will have everything covered, whether it's transporting just a couple of pieces of furniture or the entire inventory. Disassemble first 
As hotel furniture is larger and more complicated than standard home furniture, it requires more attention when disassembling and preparing for removal. It's recommended that you disassemble it first, as it will significantly save space in the removal vehicles and allow you to transport bigger quantities in one go. 
One thing you must not forget is to pack proper tools and assembling instructions so they can be easily found at the destination point. All this is quite time-consuming and you will need to pay extra workers, but it will be worth it in the end, when the process of unpacking and assembly goes smoothly after the removal. Pack well in advance 
Besides disassembly, another important part of the removal preparation is packing . Most hotel furniture is quite large and heavy so it can easily get damaged, broken or torn during transport, especially if there are parts that are made of glass and fabric. Many removal companies do not include packing into their service, or charge additionally for it, so in order to save some money and secure your property, there are several things you can do. 
Remove all pillows, cushions and soft items and pack them in plastic bags. Do not clean any upholstery before moving, as you will have to do it thoroughly on the new location. In this way, you can save money on cleaning costs. Wrap all fragile and valuable pieces in blankets or bubble wrap and secure them with packing tape so nothing gets damaged during removal. 
If you follow all the removal preparations listed here and devote your time and attention to packing, your efforts will be well worth it in the end. You will preserve your furniture, decrease chances of potential damage and extra costs, and it will be less likely you'll receive any customer complaints when your hotel is up and running again with functional furniture. 
Contact