18 March 2018, 22:09 Ballot stuffing and compulsory voting reported in Ingushetia 
By 6:00 pm in Ingushetia, 156,391 voters participated in the presidential elections in Russia, no violations were recorded, the republic's election commission reported. 
70.9 percent of the voters included in the voters list have already voted, Musa Gorchkhanov, the head of the department of the election commission of Ingushetia, said. 
The percentage of the electorate who came to vote is overstated, Ruslan Mutsolgov, the head of the regional branch of the Yabloko party, believes. 
"For example, in Karabulak not a single voter has appeared at two polling stations in four hours after lunch," he said. 
According to Mutsolgov, ballot stuffing took place during voting, as evidenced by videotaping. 
Local residents told they came to vote to show civil activity and to fulfill the demands of the authorities. 
"Each of us had to be photographed at the moment we drop the ballot into a box. It was ordered to do so to make sure no one ignores the presidential election," said Khava, an employee of a local budgetary institution. 
However, observers have not recorded any violations. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Umar Yovloy, Tatyana Gantimurova ; Source: CK correspondents e21f6204 All news; Politics; Society; Ingushetia; Russia; North-Caucasian Federal District All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY