Home / policy / Developer “Newbie” explained Britain’s refusal to provide a sample of a substance Developer “Newbie” explained Britain’s refusal to provide a sample of a substance 3 mins ago policy 0 Views 
Shoot the junk man is a powerful rocket and not get in this is the height of stupidity, said one of the developers of chemical weapons a “Newbie” Leonid rink. According to him, the British did not give a sample of the substance, which was poisoned Skripal, Moscow, because once it turns out that this is not Russian technology. 
“Russia is completely no motive, obviously. First, Mr. Skripal “worked down” by both parties, i.e. the Russians, he completely surrendered his British contact, the British – all that was known in the USSR. No interest for Moscow is not represented. Second, the time for Russia, too, is absolutely unprofitable. A few days before (last March 18 presidential) elections and shortly before the world Cup,” said rink, RIA “Novosti”. 
He also noted that “since all participants of this incident are still alive, hard to imagine that this involved the Russians.”“Such blatant ignorance imaginary saboteurs are ridiculous and unacceptable. And, most importantly, even one illiterate Russian spy would not use the only product of Russian origin and with a Russian name. Plenty of other more suitable substances. Shoot the junk man is a powerful rocket and not get in this is the height of stupidity,” added rinck. See also: The doctors explained what determines school performance 
In addition, he stressed that Britain still did not provide Russia a sample of the substance was poisoned Skripal. “Why the British did not give a sample of Moscow? Because as much as professionals try, technology will always be a little different. This kind of “handwriting”. Soon found out that this is not Russian technology,” said rink. 
According to him, those who synthesized the substance that had poisoned Skripal, might not know many of its components. “Therefore, the sample of Salisbury is a fingerprint for forensic. We can say that “cooked” not in Russia”, – said rink. 
He did not rule out that the British experts could poison the ex-Colonel of the GRU, adding that you can determine what exactly was poisoned Skripal. 
“Of course, all you can determine. And it is certain that in the UK there are specialists. They could handle, I think, things Skripal or his daughter. Or some things in the cemetery. Naturally, there had to know that these days Skripal will go to the cemetery. It could easily do the British themselves,” said rink. See also: Iran, the Saudis and Russia 
According to Rink, the British available technology to create a “Newbie”. “For professionals it is public… Any pharmacore, any chemical group able to do it in their labs,” said the developer. Rink explained that all the formulas needed to create a “Newbie”, previously released emigrated to the United States chemist Vil Mirzayanov. 
We will remind, 66-year-old Skripal, his 33-year-old daughter Julia, and another 10 people were poisoned nerve agent in Salisbury in the UK on 4 March. Skripal and his daughter are in a coma. 
Moscow was declared persona non grata 23 British diplomats and closed the Consulate General in St. Petersburg in response to a similar action by Britain, adopted the case Skripal. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share