35 (17.8) 0.078 In interviews and FGDs, all college students, both male and female, spoke about their interest in skin care, fitness and diet and how the internet gave them access to this health information. Not all the information received was biomedical. For example, worried about the condition of his hair (slow growth and thinning), Ishrat used Google and followed advice suggesting he apply a mixture of castor and coconut oil. This, he believed, solved his problem. Johnny ‘ found something on Facebook ’ saying that garlic is beneficial for asthma and told his friends and family. ‘ Now everyone’s having garlic and getting benefits ’ despite not suffering from asthma. In these instances, there is scope to use non-biomedical health information, but this may be less appropriate if faced with more serious health conditions (discussed in more detail below). Both men and women students also browsed for information on sex, and what to eat to keep fit. Women students were interested in understanding reproduction and controlling fertility, while male students looked at pornography and searched for information on prolonging intercourse. As one male informant explained, ‘ well I have searched a bit [for SRH information]. Now if you talk about pornography, even people 5 years younger than us watch porn regularly… They’re watching it on the phone, on the laptop, it’s everywhere ’. Some male students had used the internet for other family members’ serious health problems. Ishrak made an online medical appointment at a hospital in Dhaka for his mother’s eye problem. Johnny identified ‘ good ’ and ‘ well-reputed ’ doctors online after his mother’s car accident, and for his grandfather’s kidney problem (however, financial limitations prevented any uptake). Shafwat tried (unsuccessfully) to call a health help line to enquire about his younger cousin’s loss of appetite. 17 Saad googled for information after his younger brother was diagnosed with a tumour and collected ‘ everything ’. With the exception of Ishrak, none of these students acted on the online information and seldom shared it with their families. As a consequence, online health information did not usually translate into particular health seeking behaviours. Female students (most of whom were unmarried) searched online to find out about their bodies and sexual health. They spoke of their difficulty discussing these issues with doctors (particularly but not exclusively male) and other adult women. Even though societal norms discouraged young women students from accessing SRH information and from ‘frivolous’ mobile phone usage, these students emphasised their newfound ability to use their phones (often without their parents’ knowledge or permission) to avoid gatekeepers. Some searched for information on menstruation. Fatima for example, had ‘ no idea about it ’ and said, ‘ I knew about it when I first experienced it… I was not informed by anyone [about menstruation] ’. Others, like Bithi, researched menstrual pains for herself and pregnancy advice for another. Nisha Googled contraception. Discussion The data show that Mirzapur’s college students are economically relatively well positioned, more likely to own mobile phones, and more aware of the internet than the general population and youth in the general population (Tables 1 –4). These college students are interested in health information and are more likely to use their mobiles and, where available, computers to access this information (Tables 5 –8). Does this mean that ICTs are the tools through which health systems are undergoing innovation and change? Are ICTs facilitating an emergent process of disintermediation and apomediation in Bangladesh’s health system? The concept of disintermediation imagines a process of unmediated access to information, which enables people to navigate around gatekeepers, retrieving information which is usually controlled by professional interest groups of various kinds. Evidence from Bangladesh, however, points to the importance of social and cultural gatekeeping in a conservative society, with constraints (stricter for women and unmarried men) on young people’s sexual health information. Young people trying to get information on issues such as sexual and reproductive health thus often have to overcome barriers imposed by a wide range of health gatekeepers, including family, elders, guardians of socio-cultural knowledge, health system providers and medical experts, as the keepers of medical knowledge and what it is ‘appropriate’ for them to know, and as decision makers about access to services and treatment. The reality in Mirzapur is therefore far from a utopian world of disintermediation and apomediation. While both male and female students looked for health information online – from how to care for one’s skin to what to do about tumours – and were able to access some information, there were limits to what information they accessed and how they could use it. Lupton, focusing on ‘digitally-engaged patients’, argues that digital technology and disintermediation should provide the means of ‘preserving and promoting their own good health, including accessing relevant information, monitoring their own health and taking responsibility for managing their medical conditions’ ([ 37 ]: 857). In the case of college students’ online health information seeking, it is however clear that practical, technological, gender and cultural barriers created considerable limitations. Nevertheless, in Mirzapur, access to digital technology offered college students ways to evade some gatekeepers’ social control and, in so doing, to make health and SRH information more freely available to them. Sexual health is an area where gatekeeping is particularly prevalent. Conventionally information about SRH was seldom shared between adults and students, and particularly not between adults and young women ([ 48 ]: 169; [ 28 , 31 , 49 , 52 ]). In our research, male and female students were accessing and sharing SRH information. This enabled some women students to gain a better understanding of their bodies and a sense that they had more control over their fertility. For example, Nisha, a young married woman, wanted to know what form of contraception was most appropriate. As she was too shy and uncomfortable to approach a doctor and was confused about the information she had received through conventional health information sources (miking, posters, television, newspapers), she turned to the internet, learning how a woman’s body operates and how an embryo evolves. She read that, if she avoided intercourse 7–12 days after menstruation, then she did not need to use any contraception. For Nisha, this was better than other sources because it provided her, in her estimation, with a ‘ full or entire analysis ’. While access to this information provided Nisha with some reassurance, it may not have been a complete and medically-accurate analysis and there are few guarantees that she will be able to delay pregnancy as a result of this knowledge. There are, of course, potential disadvantages associated with the bypassing health professionals and other traditional gatekeepers. Van der Geest and Reynolds Whyte [ 19 ] examine the consequences of this in relation to drugs and medication. They point out that people who adopt ‘self-treatment’ are dependent on impersonal market relations and vulnerable to exploitation by other, less medically-qualified persons – such as informal drug vendors, shop keepers, etc. – who, while advising on pharmaceutical consumption, may not have patients’ best interests at heart. Similar issues are at stake in relation to mobile phones and access to health information, reflecting both the need for a broader health knowledge economy approach [ 12 ] and the need to consider how currently unregulated ICT-mediated health information can make ‘unsubstantiated claims to medical authority’, or ‘misleading claims’ or suggest ‘inappropriate treatment’ that may ultimately cause harm ([ 13 ]: 6,7). These and other risks are evident in the college students’ navigation of health information, including that the students will not be able to identify effective, accurate suppliers of information; that the information and health solutions found online will not produce the results desired; that they will spend money on ineffective treatments and that they will misuse drugs resulting in increased threats to their health and public health more broadly. At present however, the risks experienced by Mirzapur’s college students are relatively low. This is because, first, the kinds of health information – and consequent treatments – being pursued by Mirzapur’s college students tend to focus primarily on skin, fitness and beauty rather than severe illness or disease. Secondly, these students are not at present purchasing drugs online and thus their actions do not have high risk potential. Recall, for example, Johnny’s recommendation of garlic for asthma. This is unlikely to have major negative consequences and, if instances of asthma continue, affected persons are likely to seek further information and treatment. Thirdly, despite challenging societal norms and bypassing conventional gatekeepers, through unmediated internet access, college students’ use of inaccurate health information may have contradictory consequences. Take for example Nisha’s search for appropriate information about contraception. For young married women such as Nisha, the expectation is that they should bear children soon after marriage, so the consequence of poor SRH information on avoiding pregnancy is not likely to be of concern, except for the young women themselves. The consequences of inaccurate contraceptive information, if coupled with sexual activity, would however be far more significant for unmarried women [ 28 ]. Moreover, the long-term consequences of using mobile phones to access a wide range of health information should not be under-estimated. Hampshire et al. [ 24 ] have argued that, as new forms of technology create new health markets, so young people and others will be increasingly targeted and they will have to develop appropriate resources, networks and skills to navigate their way through these markets. To date, however, access to the internet, usually through mobiles and occasionally computers, has provided male and female students in Mirzapur with discretion and anonymity, factors which, for youth, may be more important to them than health providers’ qualifications [ 32 ] and biomedical accuracy. In private, female students searched for information about their menstrual cycle and pregnancy, while male students searched for topics like HIV, the use of condoms and sexual performance. Their more general health interests – how to stay healthy, avoid disease and so forth – were publicly shared, as the students ‘liked’ health pages and Facebook feeds. Even this seemingly minor act of ‘liking’ a page, and promoting it amongst peers has, as Lünich and colleagues argue, a gatekeeping function in that it rates and promotes particular websites’ and certain kinds of information [ 36 ]. Such actions facilitate apomediation, the process by which college students use digital technology and, having become educated about their bodies and health conditions, share knowledge with their peers, and provide information to family members when relevant [ 37 ]. Apomediation is, in theory, different to gatekeeping because it does not reinforce hierarchical power relations. While gatekeepers are seen to stand ‘in-between’ people and health information and treatment, apomediators are understood to ‘stand by’ their peers and others in need of health information ([ 17 ]: 162). Apomediators have the choice whether to share information, when to share it and in what format, but with few guarantees about the accuracy or efficacy of this information. Bithi, helped her newly-married sister who had experienced two successive miscarriages, by downloading a health app containing pregnancy information and instructions on activities to avoid. Other girls shared information on menstrual hygiene and not getting pregnant with close friends. This kind of information sharing is highly significant in a society where college students, and indeed all young people’s but especially young women’s, sexuality has been carefully monitored, and SRH information strictly controlled by gatekeepers, because it gives these students access to information which helps them understand more about their bodies and their fertility and thus to make more (but not necessarily wholly) informed decisions about intercourse, sexual health and reproduction. In theory disintermediation and apomediation provide college students with greater choice as to who might offer health information. Some may continue to use the intermediaries they have always used. Others might look to new intermediaries. The tendency to look for new intermediaries, Eysenbach suggests, is particularly pronounced among young people who, ‘strive to become more autonomous and to reduce the power of intermediaries such as their parents, with peers taking on the role of the former intermediaries’ ([ 17 ]: 162). Older adolescents seek to challenge authority, strive for greater autonomy and find peer-to-peer apomediation attractive. Our study shows that willingness to engage in disintermediation and apomediation is influenced by age, gender, health condition and by familiarity with digital technology. Despite young men having greater access to digital technology, college students of both genders are using phones and computers to explore sexuality and healthy lifestyle choices. This information is relatively easy to act upon, not requiring significant social and financial resources. Mirzapur’s students found online information to be useful and engaged, to some extent, in peer apomediation, sharing health information in face-to-face discussions with friends and similarly-aged relatives who were not as experienced online, and through ‘likes’ and forwarding posts. Familiarity with technology also influences the extent to which college students use digital technology as a means to bypass intermediaries. Thus, the more intensively students used mobiles, the less likely they were to defer to their parents as the primary health intermediary. There is, as shown above, a dominance of male students among internet users, reflecting both lower levels of familial gatekeeping and their greater access to the internet. This, Eysenbach [ 17 ] suggests, creates potential for a feedback loop; as students get better at accessing information, there is more reliance on peers to share information. There are also new intermediaries, such as digital providers and college teachers that – whilst embedded in conventional socio-cultural systems and power relations – allow the possibility of bypassing gatekeepers. College teachers are required to teach SRH in schools [ 52 ]. Socio-cultural norms, shame and fear of stigma which prohibit the sharing of this information across age and gender categories make this an embarrassing experience for teachers and students alike. As a result, some teachers have avoided teaching this and have instead referred students to the internet. This has particularly influenced women college students. Shahinoor’s teacher, for example, explained: ‘ If you have any problem, you will find a separate page after logging into internet ’. So, when Shaninoor was interested to find out more about contraception, she remembered ‘ Sir told us that if there are any health or questions like that… Sir gave us an address, so I searched by typing that ’. At the time of the interview, Shahinoor had never searched on Google, she had only used the website address given to her by her teacher. Bithi’s teacher, equally embarrassed to teach biology, had said ‘ you can find anything if you Google it ’ and thus encouraged her to explore health and reproductive information online. Bithi then searched for health information online, finding information and downloading health apps. Digital service providers in the telecommunications industry also act as new gatekeepers to health information through the types of internet access and bundles they offer. Social network providers such as Facebook provide information to members through, for instance, selected links which direct college students, and other young people, to particular websites. In so doing, Facebook offers an illusion of using the whole internet, but this is limited to particular sites. As indicated in the following quotations, at least some of Mirzapur’s college students, both male and female, do not recognise this distinction and associate internet searching with Facebook: Interviewer: ‘ How long have you been using the internet’? Respondent: ‘ I’ve basically been connected to the internet because of Facebook. Since 2012, it could be said’ . Interviewer: ‘ So which medium do you use to get information’? Respondent: ‘ … for the exchange of information I use the internet, mainly Facebook browsing’ . This limited access undermines the concept of the internet, which is to enable anyone to connect up to anyone else without gatekeepers and without permission. ‘The internet by definition is a vast collection of interlinked sites – over a billion of them, at last count. And Facebook offers about 0. 2% of this to the user’ ([ 41 ]: no page number; [ 53 ]). The implications are significant, as Facebook is Bangladesh’s most popular internet service, used by 64% of students in Mirzapur. Given the limited internet literacy and the heavy reliance on mobile phones to access the internet, there is little scope or incentive for college students to go beyond these sites. This gatekeeping function is of particular consequence not only because it is not immediately apparent, but also because, as Facebook is a commercial platform, its users’ interests are exploited to sell targeted advertising space. This can turn a user’s passing concern with, say baldness, into a targeted marketing strategy directing the user to a range of commercial, rather than efficacious or appropriate, medication and, as suggested above, making users vulnerable to unscrupulous market exploitation that does not have their health interests at heart. In addition, while Facebook does provide access to four health-related websites, college students are more inclined to ‘like’ informal, unregulated health information – such as Johnny’s reporting of the benefits of garlic described above. This informal, unregulated health information is, as Eysenbach suggests, an important aspect of apomediation, with experience-based information and personal accounts of efficacy assuming increased significance and credibility. The incorporation of digital technologies in health systems may thus mean that, while ‘former intermediaries do not disappear completely’ ([ 17 ]: 165), new gatekeepers give the appearance of being apomediaries, obscuring commercial interest behind a façade of peer-to-peer mediation. Conclusion Almost two decades ago, Goldsmith predicted that ‘the internet has a greater potential to fundamentally transform both the structure and the core processes of medicine than any new technology we have seen in the past fifty years […] The most important effect of the internet will be to strengthen the consumer’s role in relation to practitioners and health care institutions, and to create a powerful new tool to help people manage their own health risks more effectively’ ([ 21 ]: 155–6). This paper shows that mobile phones and computers have created new opportunities for college students in Mirzapur to access and to share health information which was previously controlled by health intermediaries and other gatekeepers, and often discouraged by socio-cultural values and norms. Despite predictions that ICT innovations will transform patient-provider relationships and health systems, access to health information in Mirzapur was not unfettered. Social and cultural control through senior family members and other cultural gatekeepers of access to digital sources of information continues to be very strong, particularly for young women. At the same time, new intermediaries such as school teachers and some commercial digital platforms have played a more enabling role in encouraging access. But this has been at the price of determining what sources of information to reveal or to restrict, as the case of service providers like Facebook show. Disintermediation has taken place to varying degrees with both male and female students searching online for health information. The ways in which college students share information online, through ‘likes’, forwarding posts etc., is more in keeping with what one might expect in this era of digital innovation. Yet it is perhaps the personal searches for sexual health, undertaken by both women and men, and the information found online but shared through discreet, private and personal face-to-face discussions, that most challenges social norms and is perhaps most innovative. This is perhaps most radical in the case of some young women students because it provides them with information which facilitates decisions about reproduction that were previously in the hands of senior women, men and health service gatekeepers. Using mobile phones to access the internet was something college students were doing in relation to sexual health and lifestyle information, and was an activity which enabled them to bypass intermediaries and gatekeepers; but was not an activity undertaken in critical health situations. To what extent then, does this digital health information seeking portend future innovation and disruption in the health system? The evidence of disintermediation and apomediation suggests that changes in access to health system knowledge and power relations are likely but will still have to contend with the power of social and cultural norms. There is evidence that familiarity with digital technologies enhances the likelihood that conventional gatekeepers will be circumvented and that, even as new intermediaries emerge, new sources of information will be promoted which are less grounded in socio-cultural norms and power relations, but access is still likely to be gendered and to be subject to policing by family members or by other social and political forces. The data suggest that apomediation and experience-based credibility may become increasingly desirable and relevant but that this will raise important questions about the quality and reliability of information and how these are ‘brokered’. Because these college students are likely to continue using digital technology as they age, improvements in their technological skills, in the technology itself, and in access to the technology are to be expected. Ultimately however, large-scale health system innovation may depend not on the innovations used by college students, but rather on the degree to which powerful internet gatekeepers – such as Facebook – are able to dominate control over SRH information while marketing seemingly unmediated health information and treatments in the guise of peer-to-peer apomediation. Footnotes 1 Young, educated and better-off males tend to be most active on the internet or most experienced with mobile phone usage [ 10 , 30 ] with evidence from both high income countries [ 10 , 15 , 35 , 39 , 44 ] and low- and middle-income countries [ 14 , 45 ]. For example, Nisbett shows that young men in Asia enthusiastically embraced careers in IT enterprises and adopted ‘highly visible consumption habits’, exemplified in mobile phone use ([ 43 ]: 175). In February/March 2016, Grameen phone offered 20 min talk time, 5 MB internet usage, 5 SMS and 5MMS over a two-day time period to Grameen subscribers for 5 Taka. Banglalink advertised ‘Facebook, Whatsapp & Twitter All-Day Long’ for one Taka. Airtel offered users 2400 min, 10,000 SMS messages and 10GB internet access for 2000 BDT per month in March 2016. Community health workers or Shasthya Sebikas are trained workers who support Upazila health complexes by undertaking home visits to promote health and provide family planning services. Health workers can be Non-Government Organisations’ employees, voluntary community workers or government employees. These informal healers were introduced in the 1970s and modelled on the Chinese concept of barefoot doctors. These village doctors have received limited training, in the form of short courses run either by the government or pharmaceutical companies. 6 In the absence of prior variance estimates of the outcome variables, a value of 0.5 (the maximum for dichotomous variables) was used to calculate the required sample size to obtain 95% confidence limits with a precision of ±10%, assuming a design effect of 2. This implied a sample size of 840 households. The target sample size for the college students was 420 because in the absence of clustering, a design effect of 1 was assumed. 8 After formal introductions with the college head, researchers were directed to possible participants and thereafter used personal introductions to peers and opportunistic meetings. There is no reason to believe that selected students were atypical in respect of their ICT use and sample size was large enough to minimise bias. A small plastic card with an embedded microchip storing information: user identification, phone number, credit, network authorisation, and contact numbers. 10 For the purposes of comparison data from the General Mirzapur Population survey has been presented along with a sub-sample representing youth. The age bracket of 18–24 years has been selected on the basis that 97% of the college student sample fall within this range. Other sources included internet cafés (2% ( n  = 6); fixed modems (9% ( n  = 26); places of work (3% ( n  = 9) and other (% ( n  = 10). 12 Launched in 2011, MAMA (Mobile alliance for Maternal Action) or Aponjon as it is known locally in Bangladesh is a public-private partnership involving the Bangladeshi Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and the Prime Minister’s Office, Johnson and Johnson, USAID, the UN Foundation, and BabyCenter . It is delivered by D-Net, DNet , a social enterprise that employs ICTs to encourage knowledge and access to information. MAMA it uses mobile phone technology and SMS messaging to provide free, stage-appropriate, expert health information to pregnant women and new mothers. http://www.aponjon.com.bd/mama_inner and http://www.unfoundation.org/what-we-do/issues/global-health/mobile-health-for-development/mama.html , accessed 2 December 2017. Founded in 2011, this Bangladeshi technology company connects women and young people to a wide range of health information and provides answers for health questions seldom publically voiced through its website, its app and internet.org . http://www.maya.com.bd/#/about accessed 9 March 2016 Billed as ‘Asia’s first total health care solution Portal and Health Care Management Centre’, this health portal allows patients to read health advice, request consultations with doctors and purchase products. http://www.healthprior21.com/about-us accessed 9 March 2016 15 The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) was established 70 years ago and now operates in 190 different countries and territories. It protects children’s rights, helps to ensure basic needs and seeks to expand children’s opportunities to achieve their full potential. The UNICEF Facebook page operates as an ‘engaging and learning environment for our fans to share ideas and to discuss UNICEF, UNICEF’s work and the rights of children worldwide’. https://www.facebook.com/pg/unicef.bd/about/?ref=page_internal accessed 2 December 2017. This is does not include students who may have had ‘serious’ health concerns. The call was answered and he was presented with different options, to narrow down the type of problem that he was calling about. After selecting the relevant option, ‘at one point it got disconnected. So I didn’t call again’