  Profistop – the new stop on the block JJ Smith distributing the all-new Profistop length stop and feeding systems. Home / News   
JJ Smith has announced the introduction into the UK and Ireland of the all-new Profistop® length stop and feeding systems, for which they will be the exclusive distributor. 
The Profistop range has been designed and configured to suit JJ Smith’s specific requirements, in particular relating to the software and the latest generation user-friendly touch-screen tablet controller, which unlike other programmable stops is standard across the complete range. 
The Profistop can be linked to a wide range of different machines, helping to transform manual equipment into simple-to-use, semi-automated and highly productive work stations. It can be set up for either left hand or right hand operation, with the facility to mount on a range of either flat top or roller all-steel tables with adjustable legs. Working capacity goes from 3m up to 9m, with the possibility to increase this on the HD model. Positioning accuracy is +/- 0.1 to 0.25mm. 
The range consists of: 
Profistop Basic – a simple heavy-duty automatic measuring stop that can be linked to, say, cross cut saws, with a simple-to-use 10in touch screen, go-to-position operation and 15 hot key positions .The Basic is designed to be a no frills, simple to use product that eliminates manual marking out, tape measures and tiresome costly mistakes when material is cut to an incorrect size. It is an ideal replacement for manual mechanical flip stops or old, obsolete programmable stops. 
Profistop Advanced – combining the functionality of the Basic model and coupled with the capability of offline programming in XLS format (transferable by email or USB), writing new cutting lists on the controller, incremental feeding, batch/cycle cutting and blade kerf compensation. These features make the Advanced the most complete length stop system on the market. 
Profistop HD – with a heavy duty rack and pinion drive system, the HD is particularly suitable for the longest and heaviest of materials – up to 600kg. The HD is equipped with all the features of Advanced but can also be supplied in custom lengths to suit the most challenging of applications. 
Profistop incorporating as standard the latest generation touch screen windows tablet controller 
Options on the range include on-screen cut list optimisation to minimise waste and streamline production, auto label printing with or without barcodes and lastly the Opticut-1D cloud-based production management software. 
JJ Smith will carry a full stock of the Profistop that will be delivered pre-assembled and ready to use. Sales director Ian Stanley comments: “With Profitstop we feel we have a length stop/feeding system that is the most advanced on the market today. They are simple to use, extremely accurate and competitively priced. 
“While available as stand alone units to link to existing equipment, we can supply them as a complete package together with Graule radial cross cut saws and trenchers, Stromab upstroke crosscut saws, Omga mitre saws and also the range of Fom aluminium cutting machines. Profistop can also work in conjunction with machines for metal working, plastics, composites or steel.” 
0151 548 9000