Home / phones / Smartphone BQ Shark Pro with reliable protection from water and drops Smartphone BQ Shark Pro with reliable protection from water and drops 50 mins ago phones 0 Views Domestic brand BQ has developed a new smartphone Shark Pro, which are the improved version of the model Shark in 2017. According to the manufacturer, the new unit identified and addressed the shortcomings of the original Shark, which I have to say, very little – Shark was already in our test. Today we will see what he BQ Shark Pro, except that testing of its immunity to external factors conduct will not: in this respect, he at least is not worse, and in some individual cases even better than its predecessor. Packaging BQ Shark Pro comes in a cardboard box, very sturdy and beautifully decorated. Packing just hints at his resistance – as with the graphics, and by direct reference to this feature. Informative the box, everything is in order: even if you don’t have to open it or not to search BQ Shark Pro online, you can use it to learn about the smartphone. Then there are his photographs, and a list of the main advantages, and even the list of specifications. If you look closely, you will see a list of the included accessories. Word on the packaging worked well – she leaves a purely pleasant experience. Equipment Inside the box BQ Shark Pro has only the most necessary, adjusted to modern realities and features of smartphone case. So, the manufacturer did not put in a set of headphones, but added a small screwdriver that can be worn on the keychain with the keys – you will need it to gain access to the compartment with the SIM card, protected by a flap with two screws. In addition, in the box there is a date cable, user manual (very detailed, it should be noted), warranty card and charger with a current of 1.5 amperes. A nice bonus is already printed on faceplate protective film, although the glass screen is reinforced. Double protection is obtained of the display. Features The most detailed list of hardware and software capabilities of the smartphone BQ Pro Shark found on the official website of the manufacturer. Its reduced version is in the complete instructions and the basic parameters are listed on the back of the packaging. – screen: 5 inch, IPS, 1280×720 pixels, glass Gorilla Glass; – processor: MediaTek MT6737, 4 cores; – video card: built in, Mali T-720; – memory: 2 GB RAM, 16 GB internal, microSD up to 128 GB; interfaces: microUSB 2.0, microSD, 2хЅІМ, 3.5 mm; – wireless connectivity: GSM, 3G, 4G, WI-FI 802.11 n, Bluetooth 4.2, GPS, GLONASS; – camera: main 8 MP, front 8MP; – firmware: Google Android 7 Nougat, regular interface Material UI; – battery: 3200 mAh; features: protection against water IP65. Note the presence of protective glass Gorilla Glass (generation not specified), modern operating system and a relatively good battery. It is strange that the smartphone is protected against water, IP65, and IP68 is not more reliable, but, nevertheless, a short stay in the water it is guaranteed to survive. Also, it should be noted that in this model there are two separate SIM card slots and a single microSD slot. It is much more convenient compared to the hybrid version, when we have to choose between second SIM card and the drive. Appearance BQ Shark Pro is in all respects the men’s apparatus the women it will not work in any case. This is a great bar with a powerful stern design, in which there is not an ounce of sophistication and glamour. Brutality as it is – here’s how you can describe the appearance of a smartphone in one sentence. But this is his signature trick, since it immediately evokes a feeling of reliability, solidity and indestructibility – with this smartphone you can be anywhere, even in the pouring rain for hours waist-deep in mud. The smartphone screen has a very wide frame, which is also part of the overall design concept. Behind him, the surface rippled, and there are two screws holding the cover tight niche for your SIM card. There is also a main speaker, the protection of which is not visible, and the main camera with a flash. See also: CES 2018: smartphone Moviphone substitute for a projector Left on the body there are the standard volume buttons and the inclusion of, and all interfaces are hidden under the cover and placed on the upper end. The microphone is located directly on the front panel in the cutout at the bottom thereof, and a cutout above the screen given over to the speaker. Near the last also are the sensors of light and proximity and the front camera. Ergonomics BQ Shark Pro is designed for men with large hands, and hands, due to the patterned back panel and a complete lack of glossy smooth elements on the ends it is very reliable. Dropping it just will not work – it won’t slip out of your hands. The weight of the smartphone is felt, but not much, and keep him tired, even during long conversation. In fact, BQ Shark Pro has only two serious miscalculation in ergonomics: first of all it’s on-screen buttons, though the bottom display frame can easily accommodate three rows of such buttons. In the end, they eat a significant space of the display, and he’s here to remind, only 5-inch. The second checking is the plug under the headphone Jack and microUSB interface. On the one hand, it creates additional protection against the ingress of moisture into the body, but it is made of thick rubber and is sitting pretty tight, and eventually it will interfere with connecting to a charger or headset. To remove the plug completely, alas, can not. And the location of the microUSB on top adds to the smartphone experience using the charging socket only at the bottom end, period. Otherwise use the smartphone very convenient, and its dimensions used to it very quickly. Plus, he doesn’t need a protective case because the case is very hard to leave even a tiny scratch, the more the display is hidden under a layer of protective glass and protective of film. Screen Display Shark Pro BQ can be called good, but only for its price category. The bar itself is very decent – it is IPS with good viewing angles and good color reproduction, but it is severely lacking in brightness. In the sun the screen fades completely, and even a “peak” of the palm is not much help the situation. Colors no questions arose: inversion black minimal and occurs only at critical angles, and the white color is initially cold, without a care in warm shades. The sensor layer, despite the double protection, very well responds to touch, accurately and with a high degree of accuracy. The maximum supported number of simultaneous touches – five, and that is enough for 100% of all available gesture controls, apps and video games. Sound In the smartphone to play music and sound tracks in a video using only one main speaker on the rear panel. By default, the volume is estimated at 4+ out of 5 but it always closes the hand during use, which is not good. It was quite possible to move to the lower bound, which does not affect degree of protection. The sound quality is good: it’s a little muffled (probably because of the moisture protection), but it is only very slightly reflected on the upper frequencies. Voice speaker great: loud, juicy, the speaker is heard without any effort, and even in the engineering menu can not be moved to make changes to its settings. The MIC received a score of 4 out of 5 – the interlocutor complained of muffled, though distinct sound. Protection from the wind there, but its location allows it to cover a cheek, so I’ll put it in plus. The camera The camera is definitely weak side BQ Shark Pro, considering that it is smartphone 2018. There are no “uluchshayzerov”, so removes the device-level smartphones of 2015. In other words, BQ Shark Pro is not a camera phone, and camera in it you only need to need to quickly to photograph anything. On the other hand, smartphone is not designed to replace the camera, as indicated by its value (8500 rubles at the time of writing) and positioning in the market. But his flash work out 100%: two LEDs are shining very brightly, so this is a great flashlight, and this function target audience enhanced smartphones will certainly appreciate. Phone add, there is no facial recognition, and fingerprint scanner – the protection of information is carried out only standard tools Android. Software BQ Shark Pro is running Android OS 7 “Nougat”, which in this case extended standard interface, Material UI from Google. BQ it brings only branded Wallpaper and a few preinstalled apps, but otherwise this is a clean seventh Android, without unnecessary frills. IN third-party software includes seven applications, five of which are deleted in the two accounts are only two utilities from Yandex, you can disable standard tools. After the first launch, the smartphone is available 1.2 GB of RAM out of the total 2 GB and 10.5 GB of hard disk space of 16 GB. If you remove unnecessary apps and clear cache, then off for another 500 MB, and it’s not so little. In BQ Pro Shark provides the ability to update firmware over the air. During testing, the updates to it did not arrive. In General, the smartphone runs very fast and no lags, if you don’t overload it with heavy apps. But 2GB 2018 is still quite sufficient for the vast majority of programs including instant messengers and navigators. Firmware BQ Shark Pro completely failed, and virus scan with a mobile version of Dr. The Web’s freshest databases did not reveal any malware. Performance Just note that the smartphone does not belong to the class of games already due to CPU from MediaTek. However, not the most difficult game, even Tanks on medium settings, it is possible to play, but the CPU heats up quite significantly and resets the frequency. The test results in the most popular benchmarks are the following: updated AnTuTu put the smartphone almost 34800 points in GeekBench, he earned 554 and 1510 points in single-core and multi-core modes, respectively, while gaming benchmark 3D Mark SlingShot gave 164 points. The smartphone easily keeps in memory up to four relatively heavy applications this can be a Navigator, a couple of messengers and a browser with two or three tabs open. Switching between programs is carried out at the moment. In other words, BQ Shark Pro and does not lag, unlike many other smartphones with similar fillings due to the absence of excess. Work offline BQ Shark Pro operates from a built-in battery capacity of 3200 mAh, which can’t get to without complete disassembly of the machine. Energy-intensive components had not, except a CPU is not trained in modern algorithms conserve. In normal operation “as at all” smartphone is discharged at the average for 1,5-2 days, but very long lasting on the last 5 percent. Under extreme loads, the smartphone lasts 8-9 hours, and video playback from YouTube by Wi-Fi it drains in 5 hours. Talktime on GSM networks it lasts an average of 7 hours. Energy recovery from complete memory is carried out for 2 hours, and the battery in the charging process is absolutely not heated. Attempt to use a more powerful charger to nothing – the charging time is not reduced. Conclusion Smartphone BQ Shark Pro is very good in its segment – for relatively little money you get a reliable means of communication, not subject to problems such as partial or complete failure of the fall or as a result of a short exposure in the water. In this respect the competition it can make only their Chinese counterparts that Russia has no guarantees, and that will have to wait at least three to four weeks, praying that Mail of Russia drove them out safe. But even if not to take into account security, BQ Shark Pro is still quite competitive, and good battery life coupled with easy firmware put it on a level above the closest analogue. Defects at the device a bit, and almost all of them are concentrated around ergonomics.