Wire Service Aviva selects Atos to drive digital transformation program Atos, a global leader in digital transformation, has signed a significant contract with insurance and asset management leader Aviva to deliver cross enterprise critical data services over a six and-a-half year period. WEBWIRE   
Services utilizing Atos Canopy , mainframe, security, database and middleware solutions will leverage Atos tools including the organization’s global delivery centers. 
Adrian Gregory, CEO Atos UK&I said: “Aviva is a highly significant and strategic client which builds momentum in our financial services business and, in particular, the core growth insurance sub-sector.” 
“We are delighted to embark on this new journey with Aviva to develop and deliver a shared vision of a truly digitally enabled datacenter infrastructure aligned with Aviva’s strategic business priorities.” 
An 18-month transitional period from the incumbent provider, included in the agreement, is underway. 
About Atos 
Atos is a global leader in digital transformation with approximately 100,000 employees in 73 countries and annual revenue of around € 13 billion. European number one in Big Data, Cybersecurity, High Performance Computing and Digital Workplace, the Group provides Cloud services, Infrastructure & Data Management, Business & Platform solutions, as well as transactional services through Worldline, the European leader in the payment industry. With its cutting-edge technologies, digital expertise and industry knowledge, Atos supports the digital transformation of its clients across various business sectors: Defense, Financial Services, Health, Manufacturing, Media, Energy & Utilities, Public sector, Retail, Telecommunications and Transportation. The Group is the Worldwide Information Technology Partner for the Olympic & Paralympic Games and operates under the brands Atos, Atos Consulting, Atos Worldgrid, Bull, Canopy, Unify and Worldline. Atos SE (Societas Europaea) is listed on the CAC40 Paris stock index. 
 //photos.webwire.com/prmedia/6/221648/221648-1.jpg )