OldTwitter Have control over who sees your posts 
This is where the ‘more like real life/true social’ element comes into Vero. Within the app, followers can be categorised as either close friends, friends, acquaintances and followers. These categories allow users to choose who they share their posts and content with. 
But surely that’s just hard work? I guess in a way it is with most social media users and apps being based share your content with all your followers or friends, but it backs up Vero’s real life social aims. 
How? Well, think about it, in real life, you wouldn’t share or tell your acquaintances and close friends about something in the same way, one would be more in depth/personal. More engagement 
Within Vero, you can post images & videos and text as well as check into places, edit images and share your favourite music, movies and books. 
Post engagement aims to be ‘smarter’ with each post being is ‘a little world of its own’ e.g you can tap to buy products, play music, watch trailers and explore deeper all within the app itself. 
But, whilst this all sounds good, Vero has got people worrying. Many problems have already been found within the apps usability, terms of service and technical issues. Opinions? 
“ Whist I do think that what Vero is trying to offer its users and what its doing to the challenge the ‘norms’ of social media is positive, I question how successful it will actually be. 
Many users are already losing interest in the app due to technical and usability issues. Will Vero continue to catch on and is there a place for it alongside the social media giants e.g Facebook, Instagram, Twitter? Only time will tell.” Marnie Hartley, Digital Marketing Apprentice 
“ Vero might be a fair competitor to the likes of Facebook, Twitter and the like, but the big question is whether you have room in your life for another social media platform. 
The social-proofing element of Vero adoption will probably be the hurdle it never truly gets over, mainly because it’s genuinely quite difficult (and annoying) to find out if your friends are on there (you have to manually search for everyone you want to add — who has time for that?!). 
While the concept is a nice idea, and the chronological feed is a welcome change from the illogical updates to others, there’s no benefit to the user of using Vero. Typically, people use Facebook for personal posts. Twitter for more broadcastable messages where hashtags will be used. Snapchat for close friends. Realistically, Vero doesn’t have a USP that can’t be easily imitated by Silicon Valley’s finest.” Chris Bardlsey, Account Manager 
Contact our or give us a call on 01484 30 20 10 to find out how your business can benefit from social media. 
Originally published at www.applieddigital.co.uk . 