18 March 2018, 20:52 Russian citizens voted extremely actively in Armenia 
No violations were recorded during voting at the polling stations in Yerevan and Gyumri, the Russian embassy in the Armenian capital reported. 
As reported by the "Caucasian Knot" , polling stations were opened in Armenia and Gyumri for Russian citizens in Armenia. 
Today, citizens of Russia choose the president for the next six years. Seven candidates from different parties and self-nominated Vladimir Putin take part in the presidential election. However, in fact these elections are uncontested. 
By 6.30 pm local time, over 4,200 Russian voters voted at the polling station in Yerevan. Another 1100 Russian citizens voted in Gyumri, said Pyotr Schukin, Chairman of the electoral commission in Yerevan. 
According to him, the activity of voters is "unprecedented," "such high interest in the Russian elections in Armenia has not been observed yet." 
Schukin added that representatives of the Russian Foreign Ministry, namely the staff of Russia's interests section in Georgia, have also voted in Armenia. 
  Author: Tigran Petrosyan ; Source: CK correspondent e21f6204 All news; Politics; Society; Armenia; South Caucasus; Russia All news 
Today, the Supreme Court (SC) of Chechnya has upheld the decision of the Staropromyslovsky District Court of Grozny to prolong the arrest of Oyub Titiev, the "Caucasian Knot" correspondent was informed by Pyotr Zaikin, an advocate of Oyub Titiev. March 19, 2018 13:23 
Despite the dissatisfaction of Sochi residents with coercion to participate in the presidential election, no official complaints were filed by voters, the opposition reports. March 19, 2018 09:42 Grozny state servants claim being forced to take part in a rally 
In the evening on March 18, in Grozny, about 70,000 people came for a rally dedicated to the anniversary of the Crimea's entry into Russia, the Chechen authorities reported. Teachers and students claimed being obliged to take part in the rally. March 19, 2018 05:26 Volgograd Communists call elections falsified 
Observers from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) have filed "dozens of complaints" following the results of the voting at the presidential election. On March 20, the Communists plan to hold a sanctioned picket against falsifications of the election outcome. March 19, 2018 02:10 Observer announces three attempts of ballot stuffing at a polling station in Kaspiysk 
Marat Ismailov, an observer from the "Yabloko" Party, registered three facts of ballot stuffing (throw-in) at a polling station in Kaspiysk. According to him, when he tried to stop a ballot stuffing, unidentified people wanted to take him outside, but the police intervened. The final protocol was also drawn up with violations, Marat Ismailov also noted. TOPICS OF THE DAY