Home / policy / The mother archetype in politics The mother archetype in politics 4 mins ago policy 0 Views 
Russia is a country of crypto-matriarchy. We pretend that we are a Patriarchal society, but in fact is a Patriarchal society brought up and built by women. 
I think that Russia is a country of crypto-matriarchy. We pretend that we are a Patriarchal society, but in fact is a Patriarchal society brought up and built by women — some modern women that I really don’t like it, but it often happens, it something all the bells and whistles, and then: there they are goats. 
I do it all the time. 
So, if you bring candidates to the archetypes, so it is quite sad. 
Putin is a great Russian archetype of the father. Distant, cold, spends a lot of time at work and in your free time constantly thinking about geopolitics. However, he is able to solve any problem, if you want, but he’s usually busy with something more important. 
To overcome the archetype of the father can only be the mother archetype. Because the words of the famous psychoanalytical song, only mom only mom and dad can’t be. 
Unfortunately, the Bulk is not the mother, and older brother. The archetype really wants to defeat his father and take his place, but which — for various reasons — to make it very difficult. In particular, because the archetypes of the father and older brother allow direct comparison, and father should be very much assumed that the older brother looked stronger, safer and better. And still no one will ever forget that he was only the eldest son. See also: Larisa Guzeeva: "mother-in-Law who ruin the lives of children, fools" 
In fact, one of the problems of Navalny as a politician in that part of his potential supporters would not give him the right to fight — like, like punk, where it. No, rationality in that there is an automatic reaction, which has nothing to oppose except time and age. 
For people with an active lifestyle, perhaps all this is not very close and clear, because they would themselves define their lives, but many of us are much more comfortable to shift the responsibility on parents. 
I tried to imagine how would look like a politician, fulfills the archetype of the mother, and I have not got, but if you go on top, it seems to me that you need: 
1. To reduce the level of direct verbal aggression. 
2. In critical situations, the disapproving purse of the lips. 
3. Level of passive aggression to wring the maximum. 
4. To anything clearly not to call, but make it clear you are disappointed by the behavior of supporters. 
5. But still love them, because you’re her mother. 
6. To take care of them because five. 
7. From time to time to mention that supporters of other candidates better study and did not prevent them. 
8. To be constantly reminded that you don’t need supporters, and you them, because otherwise who will protect and feed. 
9. In the cold season to demand that supporters wore a hat. 
10. And well they ate all year round. 
11. 9 and 10 the main points of his program. 
12. Require to avoid conflict: “you just smile and walk away” and “he’s just a fool, just get over it”. 
13. From time to time to inform you that you whole life. 
14. Suddenly to hug and kiss. 
15. Interested in internal life of the country, and not geopolitics. 
16. All ideas and suggestions regarding geopolitics to answer “what if Donald trump off a cliff go jump, will you come too?”. 
17. Videos about corruption on YouTube begins with the words “and see what interesting official you Bunny will today bring, let him play”. 
The political landscape is now such that with the fourteenth paragraph from a male applicant may have problems, but overall the archetype-the mother — as with all archetypes gender-neutral and not busy right now nothing. 
I mean, even wonder why on the surface is. 
The main mistake of the Russian opposition this is the basic hypothesis that we are surrounded by adults who need something and willing something for the sake of it to do. But if you approach the mirror, then it is likely to affect a child who just wants all. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share