Kempinski Hotel Muscat Kempinski Hotel Muscat 
Designed with a variety of local Omani influences, the modern urban resort Kempinski Hotel Muscat has opened its doors to guests from around the world as well as the surrounding community. Encompassing over 6 km of stunning coastline within Al Mouj community, this unparalleled luxury destination in the capital of Oman blends traditional Omani hospitality with the timeless European elegance of Kempinski. With 310 rooms and suites, state-of-the-art meeting facilities, 10 world-class restaurants and bars, a fully equipped health club and an authentic spa experience, Kempinski Hotel Muscat is a gateway to an authentic Omani adventure. 
"Being the latest hotel addition in the heart of new Muscat, it gives me great pleasure to introduce this brand-new hotel to our discerning guests, who are eager to experience the remarkable European flair of Kempinski and join us on this journey", says Carsten Weigandt, General Manager of Kempinski Hotel Muscat. "We aim to offer a combination of local traditions inspired by Omani hospitality and world-class luxury to guests visiting the Sultanate, guaranteed to create unforgettable memories. Oman"s rich culture and diverse landscape places the country as a must-visit destination for tourists. The expansive beaches, green valleys, caves, scenic mountain ranges, traditional markets, and architecture of numerous historical monuments are major attractions for tourists from around the world." 
Designed by Woods Bagot, Kempinski Hotel Muscat is a modern interpretation of Muscat and the Sultanate of Oman, with stand-out elements that are truly Omani in nature. The hotel"s buildings, with a façade inspired by the landscape of Old Muscat – such as the Muttrah Corniche – are a matrix of building structures, outlining what was once a commercial centre. The design of the lobby originates from the nature of lilies in a pond, and is inspired by the Al Alam Palace, the ceremonial palace of His Majesty Sultan Qaboos. The prominent location of the ballroom – wherein the Muscat Ballroom is situated – establishes a strong first impression, with an architectural design inspired by Arabic lanterns, illuminated in the evening to reinforce the hotel as a landmark in the Al Mouj community. 
"The opening in Muscat is part of the overall Middle Eastern growth strategy of Kempinski Hotels of luxurious properties in key destinations including full service resort and leisure destinations", comments Henk Meyknecht, Chief Operating Officer Middle East & Africa and member of the Kempinski Management Board. "As a European hotel operator we look forward to contributing to the growing success of the tourism sector in Muscat catering to a growing global audience of discerning travelers." 
Kempinski Hotel Muscat comes as a dining destination where guests can experience live interactive cuisines at The Kitchen Restaurant or choose to indulge in a delightful Northern Indian experience at Bukhara Restaurant. For light snacks and meals during the day, the Pool Bar team takes care of each guest"s appetite, while relaxing and enjoying the sun. For fans of Thai street food, Soi Soi is the place to be; a lively restaurant reminiscent of Bangkok"s bustling street-food scene. For authentic Indian teas, Boulevard Tea House provides that and more in a cosy setting. Fresh coffee, dainty desserts and pastries can be found at Café One, the hotel"s deli. Amwaj Lounge, the hotel"s luxury living room, sets the scene with a selection of French pastries and afternoon tea. 
Cigar aficionados can unwind in the opulent 1897 Cigar Lounge & Bar, presenting the biggest collection of Cuban cigars and a wide selection of single malt. Zale, the hotel"s beach club and lounge, is also the only one of its kind in Al Mouj, specialising in globally inspired cuisine, using seasonal ingredients and the freshest local products. At night, this venue turns into a vibrant lounge, a new and exciting addition to Muscat"s night scene. Cosmic Bowling is the only bowling and entertainment centre in Al Mouj, perfect for a fun game of bowling. Guests can also unwind after work or watch the latest sporting events on large screens with a drink in hand and a light snack. 
Swiss luxury wellness expert, Resense, has carefully crafted the bespoke Kempinski The Spa & Health Club to offer guests memorable experiences inspired by Omani wellness traditions, yet delivered in true European luxury. Designed with guests in mind, the spa offers separate havens for men and women as well as a lavish couples" suite with private heat and water experiences, a double treatment room, the latest technology in results-driven treatments, and an exclusive health club exclusively for hotel guests and selected members. The gentlemen"s spa is more like a private club complete with a luxurious bathing journey, treatment suites, skilled barber and private relaxation lounge to convalesce afterwards whilst sipping a favourite drink. Ladies can rejuvenate in peace in the ladies" sauna, steam and hydrotherapy pool prior to relaxing in the lounge or enjoying an advanced cosmeceutical or bespoke body treatment in the ladies" treatment suites. The health club is a state-of-the-art gym complete with dedicated personal training and assessment room, a female only gym, fitness class studio and a juice bar where guests and members can enjoy healthy infusions & vitamin boosters. 
The 1,100 sq m pillar-free ballroom can accommodate up to 700 guests and can be divided into three sections. The striking diamond-shaped building also hosts 11 separate function rooms, featuring natural daylight and conveniently equipped with state-of-the-art audio-visual equipment. 
Kempinski Hotel Muscat is nestled in the Al Mouj community, an innovative project that offers unparalleled lifestyle and leisure experiences within the heart of new Muscat. Located within this waterfront community, guests will have access to exciting retail and dining facilities at Boulevard, with a 400-dock marina as well as a signature PGA-standard 18-hole links-style course at Al Mouj Golf, minutes away from the airport.