Next-Generation CVIS Upgrades Communicability and Security   20 Mar 2018 An updated cardiovascular imaging and Information system (CVIS) enhances communication and efficiency across the care continuum. The newest iteration of the Siemens Healthineers (Erlangen, Germany) syngo Dynamics software emphasizes enhanced security, widespread access, enterprise consistency, and structured reporting. Improved workflow capabilities and fast and secure readings from any location via a single point of access ensure that all data is included in one place and available to users at a glance. Using HTML 5, users can remote access a common worklist on a variety of platforms and access images across imaging modalities and on any device. The new version of syngo Dynamics comes equipped with intuitive and streamlined tools for reading and reporting, such as an all new measurement and calculation palette. In addition, users can produce fast, precise, and smart structured reporting with individually customizable reports and worksheets that can auto-populate measurements, calculations, and observational data, thus providing healthcare organizations consistency throughout their enterprises. As a cardiology picture archiving and communication systems (PACS), syngo Dynamics can support the physician in interpretation and evaluation of all examinations within healthcare institutions by enabling a bi-directional data flow with the electronic health record (EHR). Advanced features such as graphical diagrams for congenital heart disease (CHD) and vascular results show relevant findings at a glance with the aid of customizable report templates, and a rules-based decision support functionality that helps find missing or inconsistent data in the procedure report before sign off. “Siemens Healthineers addresses current healthcare challenges, such as increasing workloads and a need for enterprise continuity, with an easy-to-use and widely accessible digitalized healthcare solution,” said Dave Pacitti, president of Siemens Healthineers North America. “syngo Dynamics can be accessed virtually anywhere, whether at a hospital workstation or on a clinician’s tablet at home, supporting the transformation of care delivery and saving valuable time for cardiologists.” As the syngo Dynamics CVIS platform can be deployed easily and efficiently in every hospital within a healthcare system at once, it can manage many users across the enterprise in a centralized way. The centralized user management also enables faster and easier system upgrades. Read the full article by registering today, it's FREE! Register now for FREE to MedImaging.net and get complete access to news and events that shape the world of Radiology. Free digital version edition of Medical Imaging International sent by email on regular basis Free print version of Medical Imaging International magazine (available only outside USA and Canada). Free and unlimited access to back issues of Medical Imaging International in digital format Free Medical Imaging International Newsletter sent every 2 weeks containing the latest news Free breaking news sent via email Free access to Events Calendar Free access to LinkXpress new product services REGISTRATION IS FREE AND EASY! Sign in: Registered website members Username: