Monex: Hoe hawkish verhoogt de Fed de rente morgen?   
Hieronder volgt de Weekly Outlook van Bart Hordijk, valuta-analist bij Monex Europe, met als highlights: Het belooft een spannende week te worden voor de US dollar met het rentebesluit van de Fed morgenavond die hawkish gaat worden – maar hoe hawkish is nog de vraag? Voor het Britse pond staan deze week de inflatiecijfers, loongroei en detailhandelsverkopen op het programma, dat wordt aangevuld met een rentebesluit van de BoE op donderdag en een Brexit overeenkomst van Europese leiders op donderdag en vrijdag. Een drukke week dus. Voor de eurozone komen er door de week verschillende sentimentscijfers uit die er dit moment op lijken te wijzen dat de groei van de economie in het eerste kwartaal wat afremt ten opzichte van de groeisnelheid in Q4. 
FOMC, Carney in a coalmine and Eurozone sentiment 
The main event of this week will be the Federal Open Market Committee Rate Announcement on Wednesday, accompanied by fresh FOMC economic projections and followed by a press conference chaired by Jerome Powell. Slack slowly appears to be disappearing from the US economy as seen in the declining Unemployment rate and the Capacity Utilisation rate (chart 1). This process seemed to have accelerated in since September 2017 (chart 1, again) which is likely to play a part in the gradual rise of the market implied probability of a March rate hike since September as well (chart 2). 
Chart 1: Disappearance of slack in US accelerated in 2017 
Chart 2: Implied probability Fed hike, plus development 
The US data of late have been more than solid, with Producer Prices showing their longest streak of month-on-month increases since 2013/2014, while population-corrected Weekly Jobless Claims reached their lowest reading ever two weeks ago. Simultaneously core inflation is around the 2% Fed target, Consumer Confidence on a 17-year high and the sentiment among small business hasn’t been this high since the Reagan administration, thanks to the Trump Tax cuts, among other factors. It’s virtually beyond doubt the FOMC will hike on Wednesday with even a minor chance of a 50 basis points hike rate (16% implied probability). The expectations for the FOMC are high and even a dovish hike will be enough to send the dollar tanking. 
There is quite something at stake for the Bank of England this week, not in the least their credibility. The Monetary Policy Committee dared to implicitly promise a rate hike in May, despite financial headwinds for consumers, the worrying state of the trade balance and Brexit uncertainty. The run up to Thursday’s BoE Rate Announcement and Monetary Policy Summary is not only paved by good BoE intentions, but also by actual Consumer Price Index figures on Tuesday, Average Earnings and other labour market data on Wednesday and Retail Sales on Thursday. The tone of these readings can make the MPC’s audacious forward guidance seem either brave and clairvoyant, or hopelessly optimistic. The European Council meeting on Thursday and Friday in which European leaders will decide upon a post-Brexit transition period (under the assumption the divorce agreement is all settled) may then just add that final topping on sterling’s possibly turbulent week. 
For the Eurozone we have a week of survey data with the German ZEW Economic Sentiment on Tuesday and the German Ifo Business Climate and the Markit Purchasing Manager Indices both on Thursday. The consensus forecast for all three of these sentiment releases point to a lower reading than in the prior month. This indicates that the Eurozone economy is indeed shifting back a gear in Q1 2018 compared to Q4 2017. The patient approach advocated last week by ECB’s Draghi and Praet for the unwinding of the Asset Purchasing Program may thus likely to appear more justified after this week.