On board... the Benetti 50m FB 215 20 March 2018 13:30 Written by Georgia Tindale 
It's March and the superyacht season of events is already well and truly underway for 2018, with boats available for viewings all around the world. This week, we step on board the 49.8-metre Benetti superyacht, FB 215, currently listed for sale with Fraser. 
Built by the renowned Italian yard Benetti at their Viareggio shipyard in 1996 and undergoing her most recent, extensive refit in 2016, the 49.8-metre superyacht is a full displacement yacht from Benetti's Golden Bay Series. With a displacement steel hull, aluminium superstructure and teak decks, the Benetti superyacht was built to RINA classification society rules.FB 215 features exterior design by her Italian shipyard and her original interior design was by the Nice-based studio, Zuretti Interior Design, before being replaced with a fresh, contemporary design following her refit. 
Photo: Thierry Ameller During her complete refit which took place between 2015-6, the 49.8-metre mono hull, tri-deck superyacht was given new decks, a full paint job and a brand new stylish interior, also benefitting from substantial improvements to her technical areas. In addition, a new mast will be installed on her sundeck in the coming months, designed and built by Benetti to give her a fresh and modern look. 
As is evident from the images, the Benetti superyacht is presented to the market in immaculate, turnkey condition, after only ever being used privately by one owner: the ideal purchasing opportunity for her new owner. 
On board, she accommodates up to 12 guests across six luxurious staterooms, as well as a crew of 11 who are also accommodated for on board. The generous staterooms comprise a master suite, three VIP and two twin cabins. 
A warm, light palette characterises the contemporary classic design inside the Benetti FB 215, with materials of the highest quality used throughout the vessel, in order to create a relaxing and soothing environment for her guests where they can truly feel at home and at ease in their new surroundings. 
Photo: Thierry Ameller 
The ideal vessel for all the family, the Benetti FB 215 has all the amenities you would expect from a superyacht of this size and quality, including an on-deck jacuzzi and a swimming platform for easy access to the surrounding ocean. For those who love to get their pulses racing on the water, FB 215 also comes equipped with a generous tender garage for tender and toy storage.Whether you're soaking up rays in her sundeck jacuzzi, reclining in one of her stylish saloons or exploring the stunning scenery surrounding the yacht, the Benetti FB 215 offers everything you could need for the ultimate superyacht experience and to truly live the superyacht lifestyle. 
Benefitting from Naiad stabilisers which guarantee a smooth cruising experience, the Benetti FB 215 also has ample power, reaching top speeds of 17 knots and cruising comfortably at 14 knots, thanks to her powerful twin diesel 2262 hp engines, 
Photo: Thierry Ameller 
The Benetti FB 215 is listed by Fraser at an asking price of $12,500,000 (approximately € 10,674,000) and is available for viewings on appointment. 
To find out more about the Benetti 50m FB 215, or to arrange an appointment to view the yacht, contact her broker at Fraser, Jan Jaap Minnema by ringing +33 6 26 26 25 52 or emailing him on , 
Fraser 