Proud failure! 4 mins ago policy 0 Views 
Urgently published materials proving that the stagnation in which the country is bogged down for nine years, should be loved and considered a miracle. 
VTSIOM published the message about the launch of the project “Russia surprises: the results of the development of the country 2000-2017”. The announcement of this rapidly implemented and, of course, blessed over undertakings connecting the information, the Ministry of economic development, with a wealth of survey material VTsIOM, immediately takes the bull by the horns: Read more…“During the economic boom of the 2000-2017 years, Russia vigorously develop the economy… the GDP growth Rate of Russia has been stably above the world average… the financial position of the family appreciate more than 80% of citizens…”. 
Not noticed a dizzying seventeen-year-old recovery? Now convince. Sviatky website project begins with what promises to mobilize “sociology and statistics against myth and fiction”. And then raises the degree of joy is even higher: “This site is about the victories and achievements of the last 17 years. It is about those and for those whose efforts and talents, hopes and prayers of our home became stronger, warmer and more comfortable for life. He that came out of our joint efforts, and why their results can and should be proud of.” 
Why ask why these days respected by his superiors and beloved by their survey respondents, the service decided to do away with myths and fictions? Much more interesting just to read the material in which intellectual brilliance Polls so successfully combined with the wisdom of the Mayor. To meet him yet online, although the approach and the book with the same numerals and symbols. 
Harmonically the material is divided into three sections: “Renaissance”, “Crisis” and “Future”. “The future” to touch will not. This is a retelling of bureaucratic hotelok and obeschalok. But the first two parts is really exciting. 
“Rebirth” reminds us that “the pace of growth of Russia’s GDP is higher than the world average”. This thesis illustrates why a schedule of changes in the Russian and world per capita GDP calculated at purchasing power parities with 1990 to the present day. See also: Crimea — is our common duty 
Having made over these figures, simple arithmetic procedures, the reader will find that in 1990, Russian per capita GDP was 2.3 times higher than the average in 2000 — 1.4 times, in 2008, 1.9 times, and now — in 1,6 times. The indicator is indirect. But indicating that in 1990 — 2000, our GDP has been steadily lagging behind the world growth in 2001 — 2008 was ahead of him, though never reached the Soviet level, and in subsequent years — again lagged behind. 
If you refer to the information duty on change of physical volume of GDP (they differ slightly from the estimates of the Mayor), we see that in eight years, from 2001 to 2008, the total Russian GDP grew by 66%. And over the next nine years, until 2017, inclusive, 5 per cent. That is, in the first of these periods of time, the Russian economy grew rapidly, and in the second, stretching far, far behind the others. After all, the world GDP in 2017 was 24% more than in 2008. 
Same price and other triumphs, which depicts the “Rebirth”. Take, for example, figure “Russia is the leader in terms of GDP among the BRICS countries and the CIS”. The picture shows that Russian GDP per capita (calculated in PPS again) these seventeen years were still higher than the same index, for example, in China or Kazakhstan. 
This, of course, inspiring. If you do not look to the fact that in 2000, per capita GDP in Russia is 1.4 times higher than Kazakhstan and 3.9% Chinese, but now only 1.05 and 1.7 times. Here is “revival”. Be proud of the obvious and sustainable backlog can only people with a strong sense of humor. 
But even greater is the sense of need to those who have made the category of “Crisis,” is devoted to troubles latest and also earlier years: “If you take a sober look at how our country is going through the current crisis, it will be clear that this is a cause not for disappointment but for pride.” Don’t know about you, but I like this tone and this attitude. See also: Vladimir Putin at the hands of bad cards, but he plays them competently enough... 
However, in addition to aplomb and presented arguments. For example, a graph titled: “Russia’s Economy is growing faster than in the European Union”. Out of which, however, should be that Yes, up to 2008 grew faster, but after stopped. And, despite the stagnation of the EU economy in the years after 2008, it added a bit more than Russian. Not to mention the fact that it was not the growth rate, and the wealth and well-maintained — well-known signs of the EU. Almost the entire rest of the planet is growing faster than the European Union. 
In the past 2017, China’s economy grew 6.8% and India 6.7%, the world in General — 3.5%, USA 2.2%, Germany 2.1%, the Eurozone as a whole and by 1.9 per cent, Japan and Russia — by 1.5%. See how many reasons to be proud of? You just have to want to be proud of. 
And the role of mouth-watering addition to the main dish sing pretty chart, statistical and zimowska-questionnaire: “crises have little effect on the dynamics of timber harvesting”, “crises less impact on the optimism of the Russians”, “happy people become more” etc. etc. 
I won’t retell the rest. It is the same quality and about the same. The task to make candy out of nine years of stagnation, from section to section, from picture to picture, decide the same way — to the present stalemate tacked old growth, which ended in the last decade, and solemnly explain: you see, the worse-and almost was. As with timber harvesting and the people’s optimism so there are no problems. And it all could just up and fall apart. Don’t want it? Then don’t be stubborn. Pray and be proud of. 
Grumpy and speak evil assured that nothing of our economy, the authorities will not have the guts to say that things in it are exemplary. And once again proved to be wrong. The spirit was enough. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share