Image: Body: 
Tuesday 20 March, in the presence of the Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Didier Reynders, Karine Lalieux, Alderwoman for Tourism for the City of Brussels, Professor Jean-Louis Vincent, President of the Symposium on Intensive Care Medicine, ISICEM, Patrick Quinet, Co-President of the Delvaux Academy, and Ariane Deguelle, CEO of SQUARE. 
SQUARE-Brussels Convention Centre celebrates its 60th anniversary. 
The perfect opportunity for those in charge of this unique venue to look back at the key role it has played for over half a century in the economic growth of Belgium, and of Brussels in particular. 
Founded for the 1958 World Expo, SQUARE-Brussels Convention Centre has welcomed in its ultra-modern spaces the most prestigious heads of state, intellectuals, scientists, economic players and artists who have taken the opportunity to disseminate knowledge 
Deputy Prime Minister, Didier Reynders, was keen to point out: 
"Built for the 1958 World’s Fair, the Palais des Congrès has, thanks in particular to Beliris and the Régie des Bâtiments, been completely cleared of asbestos and renovated so that once again, Brussels is blessed with a conference centre worthy of its role as international capital of Europe." 
“As well as being the capital of Europe, Brussels is also the number one European destination for international conferences and meetings. Its business tourism industry continues to flourish. In 2017, 55% of tourists came to Brussels for work-related reasons. The Convention Centre, which is today celebrating its 60th anniversary, makes an undeniable contribution to this appeal by offering quality facilities right in the heart of the city, surrounded by museums and the jewels in Brussels’ heritage crown, ” explains Karine Lalieux, Alderwoman for Tourism for the City of Brussels. 
By drawing on the expertise of the GL events group, a key player in the events world, SQUARE-Brussels Convention Centre is set to help maintain the capital of 500 million Europeans as the leading city in the conference world. 
This important role in the economy of the City of Brussels was also highlighted by Karine Lalieux, Alderwoman for Tourism for the City of Brussels: 
“SQUARE is a unique venue that has been inspiring artists from the very beginning. In the early days, René Magritte and Paul Delvaux, each of whom painted a mural, and more recently Arne Quinze, who created its stunning panoramic room, not forgetting the glass cube, a striking masterpiece by the architects who dreamt up this surreal space”. 
For its 60th anniversary, SQUARE-Brussels Convention Centre was also keen to highlight two new developments: 
Its new name and logo, which better reflect its ambitions and its international and national reputation. 
Lastly, making the most of the beginning of the European year dedicated to promoting tourism between China and the European Union, the GL events group, who run SQUARE-Brussels Convention Centre, has decided to task its development unit with making the centre more attractive to the Chinese market. 
For Ariane Deguelle, CEO of GL events Belgium, “more than ever, Brussels can rely on SQUARE-Brussels Convention Centre to develop its economy and boost its appeal, thus confirming its role as a partner in Brussels’ ambition to maintain its position as the world’s no.1 conference city.”