Share on: google + 
This week’s listening comes from Rai Vloet, NAC Breda’s attacking midfielder. 
A creative player on the pitch, he’s crafted us this edition of LAF Playlist and given us some contemporary hip-hop from both sides of the Atlantic. It starts with one of the undisputed songs of the minute; God’s Plan by Drake. 
The 6 God made headlines for giving away millions to those less fortunate than him in the video for this song – so a fine gesture to go with a fine song from a man who can’t help but make hit songs. Following Drake is Josylvio, a Dutch artist who is making hits of his own in the Netherlands. He works with Frenna on Rai Vloet’s choice, Skiemen. 
Back to the US for the third choice, Rai’s picked a track of Migos latest album, Culture II. Stir Fry is arguably the lead track of the record, with that hook providing an easy, popular dance move. Would love to see Rai Vloet pull out the ‘Stir Fry’ should he get on the scoresheet soon. 
Next up is Rihanna. Not the artist, the song by Yxng Bane. This East-London artists sound is inspired by not just hip-hop and R&B, but dancehall music. With roots in the Caribbean, this song is a fitting tribute to Basian singer. Next though, Vloet takes us back to Toronto with Instinct by Roy Woods. The OVO singer is clearly highly rated by Drake, but it turns out that this Eredivisie midfielder is also backing Mr Woods for big things. Instinct is a typically chilled-out track from him. 
Next, a song from a fitting album for a footballer; Wins & Losses. Meek Mill’s record was highly rated since his release, and with the lyrical content on 1942 Flows, you can see why a footballer may relate to it. It’s about his come-up, his struggles and where he is now. A strong track from Meek Mill and nice to see that Rai Vloet is backing both him and Drake. 
Finally, this week’s LAF Playlist is wrapped up with another Dutch hit; Zwarte Hoodie by rapper Jonna Fraser. Working with the esteemed producer, Diztortion on this one, Jonna is rapping about a black hoodie – a staple in anyone’s wardrobe and another strong song in Rai’s playlist.