Sunrise relaunches Freedom tariffs   09:42 CET | News 
Swiss mobile operator Sunrise has relaunched its Freedom tariffs with new features, based on customers' demand: more LTE+ data in Switzerland, more data to use at home and abroad, a flat rate service in the most popular holiday destinations, data roaming with full cost control, lower subscription fees, and a new young person's offer with music streaming. The operator has kept popular old features including subscription changes at any time, no minimum subscription period, every device from a CHF 1 down payment on a device plan. and the latest iPhone every twelve months at no extra costs. 
The operator replaces the old data roaming tariff in Region 1, charging CHF 1 per 1 MB with a new roaming tariff for 46 countries called Travel Day Pass Data, providing 100 MB for CHF 1.90 per day. The new day pass offers data protection, and after spending the data package, internet is blocked unless the user buys a new package, either another 100 MB for CHF 1.90 or 2 GB for CHF 29. Overall, there are better conditions for roaming, for example, worldwide incoming voicemail is free; the weekly package now includes 1 GB instead of 500 MB, and the monthly package includes 2 GB instead of 1 GB. So far, the roaming offer applied only for Region 1, now it also applies for Region 2 and Region 3, with 30 countries offered with a new option and fifteen countries with better options. 
As the countries France, Germany, Austria and Italy are among the five most popular destinations for Swiss travellers, the operator offers the tariff Freedom Swiss Neighbours, offering roaming in neighbouring countries, with a launch promotion at CHF 79 instead of CHF 95 with a 24-month contract. Freedom Swiss Neighbours allows unlimited calls and messages within and between the countries. LTE+ is unlimited in Switzerland, and 4 GB of data is available in the neighbouring countries every month. 
Besides this, the operator offers New Freedom Europe and US for CHF 130 a month, which includes international calls and more roaming. Data roaming credit has been doubled from 2 GB to 4 GB, halving the price per megabyte. Unlimited calls, SMS, and MMS are included within and between countries. 
Customers can choose Freedom tariffs in the options Freedom Swiss Start and Freedom Swiss Calls. The tariff Freedom Swiss Start costs CHF 25 a month and includes unlimited calls on the Sunrise network and to three favourite numbers, as well as LTE+ data. If the 500 MB data allowance is used up, a new "speed booster" option offers unlimited LTE+ surfing instead of a 1 GB per day limit. The tariff Freedom Swiss Calls costs CHF 45 a month, in other words, CHF 5 a month cheaper than before, and offers double the data volume (2 GB) compared with the previous offer, as well as LTE+ surfing. 
The tariff MTV Mobile Freedom has been replaced by Sunrise Freedom Young. Sunrise Freedom Young offer is available to people aged under 30. It now offers lower monthly fees and more data for high-speed surfing with LTE+, in addition to existing popular benefits, like a 50 percent discount on the SBB half-fare and unlimited WhatsApp messaging. The music platform Tidal is included for free during the first six months. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.