Spike O’Sullivan’s promoter confirms Canelo fight By irishboxing   Headline News 
It seems Spike O’Sullivan [27(19)-2(1)] dropped Dropkick Murphys frontman Ken Casey right in it – but the Murphys Boxing boss confirmed the Cork middleweight is set to face one of the biggest names in World boxing in 2018. 
In an interview with WBN over the weekend, the big punching 33-year-old claimed he was one win away from a fight with Mexican superstar and Golden Boy money-spinner Saul ‘Canelo’ Alvarez in September and, somewhat begrudgingly, Ken Casey admitted that is the case. 
The bout will take place regardless of Canelo’s result in the eagerly anticipated Gennady Golovkin triple world title rematch on Saturday May 5th – in Las Vegas if the Kazakh wins and in a Texas Stadium if the Mexican is victorious. 
All that’s required of Mahon’s O’Sullivan is that he scores a win on Friday May 4th when he headlines a Las Vegas bill against an opponent to be confirmed shortly. Widgets Magazine 
“I didn’t know that was officially released,” Casey told SirusXM Rush before being told Spike had revealed the fight was agreed. 
“Well then I guess it’s official, yeah, that is the plan. It’s kind of the pinnacle of the sport and if Canelo wins this fight [Golovkin rematch] then it’s really the pinnacle.” 
It seems that Golden Boy have seen the fighter, whose two reverses come against Billy Joe Saunders and Chris Eubank Jr, as a possible foe for the two weight World champion for some time now. 
They attempted to sign him before he knocked out recent Last Man Standing competitor Nick Quigley earlier this year and subsequently gave him a four-fight TV deal which he started off with an upset win over Antoine Douglas on the undercard of Billy Joe Saunders v David Lemieux. 
It was suggested that Spike, who Matchroom wanted to fight Daniel Jacobs in New York in April, may have to fight Canadian Lemieux on the Canelo GGG II undercard to earn a shot at the Mexican, but it seems Cork’s favourite middleweight has secured the Canelo fight regardless. 
However, Casey warns that the Paschal Collins-trained middleweight has to come through a May 4th Sin City test first. 
“Either way it’s a huge fight and Spike obviously has to win this fight in Vegas. The opponent has to be determined, but I am thrilled for Spike to get an opportunity like this.” 
The famed Boston musician, who has also given Assassin Promotions fighter Ray Moylette some big opportunities and recently signed Niall Kennedy, is a massive Spike fan and believes Celtic Warriors Gym fighter will win a host of new fans when he eventually gets to show his credentials against a current leading boxing light. 
“Spike is a puncher and he is all heart and he should be a star. When people get to see him they are just going to fall in love with how he is in the ring.” 
— SiriusXM Boxing (@SiriusXMBoxing) March 19, 2018 Share this: