Jamie Conlan reportedly in the frame for Roman Gonzalez comeback clash By Joe O'Neill   Headline News 
Jamie Conlan [19(11)-1(1)] has confirmed that he will fight on following his World title defeat last November and the Belfast super flyweight is now reportedly in the frame to face an All Time Great. 
The popular Belfast puncher was unsuccessful in an IBF title challenge last year, being dropped four times and stopped in the sixth by Filipino Jerwin Ancajas at the SSE Odyssey Arena. 
Until recently it was unsure whether the 31-year-old would return to the ring but now Conlan could be set for a clash with none other than Roman ‘Chocolatito’ Gonzalez . 
The former pound-for-pound number one and four-weight champion lost his crown last year with successive defeats to Thai tank Srisaket Sor Rungvisai. Widgets Magazine 
Like Conlan, retirement had been mooted for the 30-year-old Nicaraguan legend but Gonzalez’s team have confirmed that he will make a return and a spot on the GGG v Canelo 2 undercard in Las Vegas on Saturday May 5th has been suggested by event promoter Tom Loeffler. 
In terms of opposition, veteran Nicaraguan boxing journalist Enrique Armas has claimed that Conlan – along with Mexicans Iran Diaz [14(6)-2(2)-2] and Hernan Marquez [43(30)-8(5)-2] and Panamanian Luis Concepcion [37(26)-6(2)] – is a possible options for Gonzalez’s comeback. El mexicano Irán Diaz y el británico Jamie Conlan también suenan como posibles rivales de Chocolatito Gonzales en la cartelera del 5 de Mayo en la velada Canelo vs Golovkin pic.twitter.com/1aFL9JAQux 
— Enrique Armas (@Armas2Enrique) March 20, 2018 
Los ex campeones mundiales Tyson Márquez y Luis El Nica Concepcion figuran entre los candidatos a enfrentar al tetra- campeón Roman Chocolatito González el 5 de Mayo en la cartelera Canelo vs Golovkin pic.twitter.com/Mf22jEdgfq 
— Enrique Armas (@Armas2Enrique) March 20, 2018 
Gonzalez [46(38)-2(1)] dominated the lower weights with his fan-friendly aggressive style over the past decade, starting at minimumweight and, despite his small frame, rising all the way to super flyweight and claiming some huge wins over the likes of Yukata Niida, Edgar Sosa, Akira Yaegashi, and Juan Francisco Estrada. 
The Central American also did what few others at his weight could, becoming big in the United States where he co-headlined a succession of big HBO shows with Golovkin and paving the way for the hugely popular ‘Superfly’ series. 
Conlan, who cultivated a reputation for exciting fights following up-and-down wars with Junior Granados, Anthony Nelson, and Yader Cardoza, had been expected to make his return on his younger brother Michael’s Belfast homecoming bill during the Summer – however the chance to fight a living legend in Vegas may take precedence in the mind of ‘The Mexican’. 
Due to his management company’s boycott of Irish media, Irish-Boxing.com were unable to contact Jamie Conlan for comment. Share this: