No Sleep For A Week 
Not sleeping for a week won't break any records, but it might break you. The effects of going without sleep are well documented, but there's also a growing body of research that suggests sleep deprivation can have a beneficial effect on depression. Life Noggin looks at the ups and downs of not sleeping. Won't You Be My Neighbor? 
For several generations of children, Fred Rogers was the epitome of kindness, showing that no matter how scary or difficult life could be, you always had a friend — and your imagination was your biggest asset. Directed by Acadamy Award-winning filmmaker Morgan Neville, Won't You Be My Neighbor takes an intimate look at the man behind the cardigan, with never-before-seen archival footage and interviews with cast and crew members. The film is set for limited release in June of 2018. Tag 
A movie 30 years in the making. Based on a true story, a group of friends has been playing the same game of tag for over three decades. The contest lasts just one month out of the year and for those 30 days nowhere is off limits. But as the guy who has never been "it" decides to retire, their competitiveness goes to the next level. Starring Ed Helms, Jake Johnson, Hannibal Buress, Jon Hamm, and Jeremy Renner, the film is set for release June 15, 2018. Frye Summit Hiking Boots 
Hiking boots were once only worn by avid outdoorsmen. Now, they're versatile enough to wear every day, whether you're tackling a trail or slippery pavement on the way to work. The Summit Hiking Boot is made using smooth full grain and vintage vegetable tanned leather that will age gracefully. Each pair also features molded rubber soles for solid footing on almost any surface. In addition, they're backed by Frye's commitment to quality, which dates back to 1863. 
Presented by Frye. Keeps Hair Loss Products 
We don't like to talk about it, but 2 out of 3 guys start losing their hair by age 35. Keeps knows that the sooner you take action, the better, and gives you access to the only two FDA approved hair loss products for about $1 a day. Get started without leaving your home in five minutes or less by signing up on their website. Your treatment arrives at your door every three months at half the cost of the pharmacy and your first month is free. There's no easier way to keep your hair. 
Presented by Keeps. 