Won't You Be My Neighbor? 
For several generations of children, Fred Rogers was the epitome of kindness, showing that no matter how scary or difficult life could be, you always had a friend — and your imagination was your biggest asset. Directed by Acadamy Award-winning filmmaker Morgan Neville, Won't You Be My Neighbor takes an intimate look at the man behind the cardigan, with never-before-seen archival footage and interviews with cast and crew members. The film is set for limited release in June of 2018. Tag 
A movie 30 years in the making. Based on a true story, a group of friends has been playing the same game of tag for over three decades. The contest lasts just one month out of the year and for those 30 days nowhere is off limits. But as the guy who has never been "it" decides to retire, their competitiveness goes to the next level. Starring Ed Helms, Jake Johnson, Hannibal Buress, Jon Hamm, and Jeremy Renner, the film is set for release June 15, 2018. Sicario: Day of the Soldado 
Benicio del Toro and Josh Brolin reprise their roles as Alejandro Gillick and Matt Graver for the Sicario sequel. The pair return to the US - Mexico border to find out the cartel is smuggling more than just drugs — they're now trafficking terrorists. Also penned by Taylor Sheridan, the film is scheduled for theaters June 29, 2018. Hamilton Khaki X-Wind Automatic Chronograph Watch 
Thanks to the Khaki X-Wind, pilots can calculate and record the crosswinds they'll encounter on their next journey using a watch. That's due to the world's first drift-angle calculator included in the Khaki Aviation X-Wind. And you don't have to be flying to appreciate this timepiece, featuring a modified Valjoux 7750 movement, automatic chronograph, a tan leather strap with rivets, and a 60-hour power reserve. So whether you're working out the specs for an upcoming flight, or navigating life on the ground, the X-Wind offers precision, function, and a handsome appearance that is a welcome addition to any collection. 
Presented by Hamilton. Casper Wave 
The result of three years of research and millions of data points, the Casper Wave is a breakthrough in mattress design. Underneath its handsome exterior, you'll find the new, proprietary Natural Geometry System. It uses five layers of foam to mimic the natural contours of your body at 36 specific points, adjusting naturally to your shoulders and hips without sacrificing support, and keeping your spine properly aligned. Like the original, it uses open-cell foams to keep you cool at night. Designed and assembled in the USA. 
Presented by Casper. All About the Toyota Land Cruiser 
It came from Japan to conquer the world — and no, we're not talking about Godzilla. This is the Toyota Land Cruiser, a 4x4 that's been everywhere you can go with four wheels, and even a few places you can't. Donut gives you the scoop on everything you need to know about Toyota's famous offroader if you plan on putting one in your garage. Get on the Black List. 
Be the first to know about the newest gear, automobiles, and apparel for men. YOU’RE NOW ON THE LIST. “If James Bond were to make an app for the stuff he wanted to buy, this would be the app.” 
— Doug Stephens, Retail Futurist 