Apple testing MicroLed screens of its own making - report   09:07 CET | News 
Apple has started testing display screens of its own making, Bloomberg reported, citing sources familiar with the situation. The company quietly started designing and producing next-generation MicroLed screens at a secret manufacturing facility near its California headquarters. So far, only a few have been made, for trialing. MicroLED screens use different light-emitting compounds than OLED displays and could make future devices slimmer, brighter and less power-hungry. Buyers will however have to wait 3-5 years before seeing the new developments in their products. An Apple spokesperson declined to comment on the report. 
The secret initiative, code-named T159, is being run by Lynn Youngs, who helped develop touch screens for the original iPhone and iPad and now oversees iPhone and Apple Watch screen technology. The 62,000-square-foot manufacturing facility is located in Santa Clara, California, and houses about 300 engineers busy designing and producing MicroLED screens for use in future products. The facility also has a special area for the intricate process of “growing” LEDs. Another facility nearby works on technology that handles LED transfers: the process of placing individual pixels into a MicroLED screen. Apple inherited the intellectual property for that process when it purchased startup LuxVue in 2014. 
Apple producing its own displays could hurt a number of companies in the long run, including screen makers Samsung, Japan Display, Sharp and LG Display, ship-screen interface maker Synaptics and OLED technology developer Universal Display. That said, the sources said Apple will likely outsource production of its new screen technology to minimize the risk of hurting its bottom line with manufacturing issues. The California facility is too small for mass-production, but the company wants to keep the proprietary technology away from its partners as long as possible. 
The latest MicroLED Apple Watch prototypes aren’t fully functioning wearables; instead the screen portion is connected to an external computer board. The screens are notably brighter than the current OLED Watch displays, and engineers have a finer level of control over individual colors, according to a person who has seen them. Executives recently approved continued development for the next two years, with the aim of shipping MicroLED screens in products. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.