19 March 2018, 21:18 KBR shows most Russia's votes for Putin 
According to the outcomes of the Sunday's presidential election, the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic (KBR) has recorded the largest percentage of votes cast for Vladimir Putin in the whole of Russia. 
On March 18, the voting took place at the presidential election in Russia . Observers reported numerous violations . 
With a voter turnout of over 90%, 93.38% of voters in the KBR have supported the incumbent President Vladimir Putin, the head of the republic's Central Election Commission (CEC) has reported. The runner-up is Pavel Grudinin, the candidate from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) with 4.15% of votes; while Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the leader of the Liberal Democratic Party of Russia (LDPR) took the third place with 1.03% of all the votes. 
The remaining presidential candidates managed to win less than 0.5% of the KBR's votes each, the "obzor.io" has reported with reference to the republic's CEC. 
In their turn, observers have reported violations during the voting and overstating the voter turnout. 
Thus, in the city of Prokhladny, observers from the CPRF refused to sign protocols at polling stations, claiming that the voter turnout was twice overstated, Anastasia Emelianova, an observer from the CPRF, reported earlier to the " Caucasian Knot ". 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: All news; Politics; Society; North-Caucasian Federal District; Kabardino-Balkaria All news 
Today, at a picket "For Fair Elections" held in Volgograd, protestors have claimed that the number of votes given for Pavel Grudinin, a Russian presidential candidate from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) is understated by falsifications. March 20, 2018 16:25 
Today, law enforcers have launched a search for members of the armed underground in the Khasavyurt and Kizilyurt Districts of Dagestan, the National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) reports. March 20, 2018 15:46 In Georgia, six participants of a protest near "Rustavi-2" building detained 
During a protest action, members of the NGO "Georgian March" attacked a journalist of the "Rustavi-2" TV Channel, who voiced an awkward joke about Christ. This was reported on March 19 by Nika Gvaramiya, the general director of the "Rustavi-2" TV Channel. He has apologized for the journalist's joke and called on to punish the persons involved in the attack on the journalist. March 20, 2018 13:37 Supporters of Zhirair Sefilyan express their indignation about verdict to him 
Zhirair Sefilyan, the leader of the Armenian movement "100 years without regime", and six other defendants were found guilty and sentenced to 2-10.5 years of imprisonment. Advocates, relatives and supporters of the defendants treated the verdict as a demonstration of power by the authorities. March 20, 2018 12:31 
On March 19, a regular soldier was wounded on one of the defensive positions in the Tavush Region, and his condition is severe, but stable, the Armenian Ministry of Defence (MoD) reports today. TOPICS OF THE DAY