20 March 2018, 05:31 Oligarchs lose their influence on Ilham Aliev, economists claim 
In Azerbaijan, Ilham Aliev, a presidential candidate and the incumbent leader of the state, uses an administrative resource in the election campaign and does not need support from oligarchs. This opinion was voiced by economists interviewed by the " Caucasian Knot ". 
The presidential election in Azerbaijan was scheduled for October 17, 2018. However, on February 5, Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliev appointed early elections on April 11, without presenting any reasons for the move. The opposition criticized this decision , explaining it by authorities' desire "to ease falsifications and not to allow the opposition to get properly prepared." 
The forthcoming presidential election cannot be assessed from the point of view of classical election campaigns, where much depends on the financial injections from big businesses, believes Mekhman Aliev , the director of the news agency "Turan". 
"This is actually a technical election, that is, a formal procedure to extend the presidential authority of Ilham Aliev. All other candidates are known to be outsiders. The opposition refused to participate in the election due to the absence of democratic conditions in the country," Mekhman Aliev told the " Caucasian Knot ". 
According to the director of the news agency, in recent years, Ilham Aliev has significantly strengthened his personal power and therefore he does not need the support of oligarchic ministers, while large businesses in the country are affiliated with them. 
The incumbent President will not bear special expenses to be re-elected, while the administrative resource is used in his favour, Mekhman Aliev notes. 
The expert believes that after the election, the people should expect further strengthening of the Ilham Aliev's power. 
When asked whether the oligarchic ministers will resist the President in that case, Mekhman Aliev answered that hidden resistance likely happens, but the leader of the state has managed to strengthen his power to such extent that he is able to extinguish any open manifestation of disobedience. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Faik Medzhid ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; South Caucasus; Azerbaijan All news