no no, high variability According to these criteria, there was evidence of a paramutation-like process at four loci (Hyper1–4, Fig. 7a and Table 1 ). For three of those (Hyper1–3), some F1s had more than 50% of methylated alleles. At the fourth locus (Hyper4, Fig. 7a ) the F1 progeny had approximately 50% of methylated alleles consistent with Mendelian inheritance but more than 3/4 of the F2 progeny had more than 50% methylated alleles (only 3/33 F2s had low methylation, p -value = 0.021, one-sided binomial test). This pattern is compatible with a partial gain of methylation by the M82 allele later in the development of the F1 (as was the case for H06 in M82 × S. pennellii ). Of note, Hyper1 corresponds to a region of highly transgressive sRNAs (log2 fold change of 7) that are 24-nt in length (Additional file 5 : Figure S1). It is therefore very similar in behaviour to H06 . As for Hyper3, it is located in the immediate promoter of the Solyc09g064640 gene, which is expressed at lower levels in the introgression lines compared to M82 (Additional file 6 : Figure S2). Fig. 7 Validation of paramutation by McrBC. a Hypermethylated DMRs. b Hypomethylated DMRs. A solid frame indicates strong evidence for paramutation, and a dashed frame partial evidence. For each region, the left hand panel shows the results of methylation analysis by McrBC for individual plants (10 M82, 10 IL8–3, 10 F1, 3 × 10 to 11 F2). This information is collated in the right hand panel with the splitting of the F2s according to their F1 parent. Low methylation: ≤ 33%. Intermediate: > 33% and ≤ 66%. High: > 66% It is clear, however, that the DNA methylation marks at these loci are not completely stable. At Hyper1 and Hyper2, for example, there were F1 s with very little methylation, suggesting that there must have been loss of methylation even from the IL8–3 allele. It is likely therefore that there are two oppositely acting mechanisms influencing the methylation status of these loci: a paramutation-like event leading to de novo establishment of DNA methylation and a second process leading to removal of DNA methylation. The net effect of these processes is likely to account for the extent to which the pattern of DNA methylation deviates from Mendelian ratios in these F1 and F2 plants. However once established in the F1, methylation may be fairly stable: F2 progeny from two out of three F1s were consistently highly methylated for Hyper1 and Hyper2. In addition to these four loci (Hyper1–4, Fig. 7a ) we also investigated inheritance at five other loci that were hypermethylated in the IL1–1, IL2–5 and IL8–3 (Additional file 7 : Figure S3 and Table 1 ). At Hyper5 and Hyper6 there was no conclusive evidence for paramutation-like behaviour (Fig. 7a ) and we conclude either that these are conventional Mendelian loci or that the instability of the methylation mark in the progeny of M82 × IL8–3 offset the effects of the paramutation-like mechanism. At Hyper7 and Hyper8, high methylation in some M82 plants as assessed by McrBC does not allow us to conclude that the lack of F2s with low methylation reflects non-Mendelian segregation (Additional file 7 : Figure S3). Methylation in IL8–3 at Hyper9 was variable, and there was no evidence for paramutation-like interactions (Additional file 7 : Figure S3). Hypomethylated DMRs We also tested inheritance of 8 hypomethylated DMRs in IL1–1, IL2–5 and IL8–3 (Hypo1–8, Fig. 7b and Additional file 7 : Figure S3). For one locus (Hypo1), there was a high proportion of the hypermethylated allele in the F2 (from two F1s in particular) although in the F1 the trend was towards medium-to-low methylation. These proportions indicate that methylation of this locus is subject to instability but that the hypermethylated M82 epiallele has some paramutation-like activity. Similarly at Hypo2 and Hypo3, there was evidence for contrasting dynamics of methylation: 4 and 5 (out of 10) F1s were highly methylated, while 3 in each case had very low methylation (Fig. 7b ). Overall the proportions of lowly methylated F2s did not significantly depart from Mendelian ratios, but the F1 of origin had clear effects, with progenies of some F1s homogeneously hypermethylated. These results argue for paramutation-like activity as well as instability of the hypermethylated M82 epialleles. At Hypo4 and Hypo5 there was no evidence for non-Mendelian segregation (Fig. 7b ), while for the remaining three loci (Hyper6–8, Additional file 7 : Figure S3), McrBC estimates of methylation in the parents were too variable to interpret the methylation levels of their progeny. In summary, of the 17 DMRs tested in detail, 7 showed at least partial evidence of a heritable gain of methylation upon crossing (Table 1 ). Because the methylation differences were observed in three independent introgression lines, it is unlikely that they are due to a trans effect from the introgressed S. pennellii region and a more likely explanation is that there is an epigenetic effect that may be partially related to paramutation-like mechanisms when methylation is gained in the M82 × IL8–3 F1s and F2s. Discussion Origins of DNA methylation differences: Paramutation-like mechanisms versus spontaneous epigenetic variation The main aim of this study was to explore the epigenetic changes associated with wide cross hybridisation of M82 × S. pennellii through the characterisation of H06 and other DMRs in at least three different ILs relative to the parental lines. In principle these shared DMRs, as with DMRs in hybrid progeny of maize [ 18 ], rice [ 19 ] and Arabidopsis thaliana [ 12 , 20 ], could be due to spontaneous epimutation [ 21 , 22 ] or genetic differences in seedstocks (e.g. a transposon insertion) [ 23 , 24 ] as well as to genetic or epigenetic interactions between the parental genomes. For many of the DMRs shared by the three ILs under study, we cannot say which of these explanations is likely to apply. For H06 , however, we could reproduce its epimutation whenever we made the M82 × S. pennellii cross and paramutation in backcrosses of IL8–3 with M82 occurred at at high frequency, suggesting that the epigenetic state of the ILs at H06 is due to the hybridisation process. To explain hybrid-induced paramutation it could be that there are genetic or epigenetic differences between the parental genomes. A genetic mechanism might apply if the two genomes differ by insertion or deletion mutation at the affected locus. In such a scenario it could be, by analogy with epigenetic marks in Neurospora crassa that the transition is triggered by unpaired DNA during meiosis of the F1 [ 25 ]. The difference between the plant and fungal systems in the properties of the epigenetic mark: in N. crassa it would be a standard heritable mark with Mendelian inheritance whereas in tomato it would be a heritable mark that can transmit between alleles. This requirement for unpaired DNA would account for the delayed onset of the paramutation-like process of H06 until the meiosis in the reproductive phase of the F1 (Fig. 3 ). An alternative epigenetic explanation could invoke sRNAs from one of the interacting alleles that, in the parental line, are at too low an abundance to trigger paramutation. If the second allele has characteristics that favour production of secondary sRNA, for example repeats [ 5 ], then the formation of the hybrid would trigger a high level of sRNA and RdDM. The well established feedback loops of the RdDM process [ 26 ] would ensure that, once established at one allele, the amplified RdDM is stable and has the epigenetic drive characteristic of paramutation in subsequent generations. These hypotheses are not mutually exclusive because both RdDM and meiotic silencing of unpaired DNA are dependent on an RNA-dependent RNA polymerase [ 27 , 25 ]. The involvement of RdDM is supported by several lines of evidence that link small RNAs and in particular 24-nt sRNAs with paramutation-like events in tomato in addition to the findings from other species [ 11 , 5 , 12 , 13 ]. At H06 , for example, the timing of the paramutation-like process correlates with the timing or sRNA production (Fig. 3 ) and in VIGS the viral sRNAs produced could mediate (although inefficiently) the stable methylation of H06 and the onset of paramutation-like properties (Fig. 4 ). In addition to H06 , out of four loci where the hypermethylated epiallele was associated with upregulated sRNAs, three showed evidence of paramutation-like behaviour (Hyper1, Hyper2 and Hypo3, Fig. 7 and Table 1 ). There are, however, epialleles with paramutation-like characteristics (Hyper3, Hyper4, Hypo1 and Hypo2, Fig. 7 ) that are not associated with differential small RNAs. It remains possible that RNA-independent mechanisms are involved although some of these examples may be due to sRNA production and gain of methylation in tissues or developmental stages that are not well represented in the samples used for this analysis. Conversely, not all epialleles with differential sRNA have distinct epigenetic marks or, even if they do, are paramutagenic. Clearly paramutation requires additional, as yet unknown, factors beyond those associated with heritable epigenetic marks. Stability of epialleles and penetrance of paramutation-like effects For one locus with two epialleles (unmethylated and methylated), there are four possible states in a non-mosaic diploid organism: ‘unmethylated/unmethylated’, ‘unmethylated/methylated’, ‘methylated/unmethylated’, ‘methylated/methylated’ (Additional file 8 : Figure S4). Local positive feedback loops in the maintenance of methylation [ 26 , 27 ] or non-methylation [ 28 ] contribute to the stability of each state, while spontaneous epimutations and epiallele interactions in epi-heterozygotes trigger state transitions and distortions in the expected Mendelian ratios (Additional file 8 : Figure S4). Epialleles associated with paramutation in maize can be highly stable as with the b1 locus, or unstable and revert to the active state, as with the pl1 locus [ 29 ]. Similarly, with the paramutation-like loci in tomato there are varying degrees of stability. For some loci there were F1 plants without methylation ( H06 , Hyper1, Hyper2, Hypo1, Hypo2, Hypo3, Fig. 7 ), indicating a degree of instability of the methylated epiallele. Currently there are no clear mechanisms to explain the loss of methylation in an epi-heterozygote, apart from a dilution by a factor two of the sRNAs that could weaken a RdDM positive feedback loop acting in trans. The penetrance of the paramutation-like interaction (transition to the ‘methylated/methylated’ state) also varied: while 9/10 F1s had high methylation at Hyper1, only 5/10 were highly methylated at Hyper2 (Fig. 7 ). It is therefore crucial to garner information about stability and paramutagenicity of a large number of epialleles in order to identify their determinants. However we note that a binary depiction of the epigenetic state (e.g. methylated/unmethylated) is not complete: while H06 IL is very stably methylated, the paramutated H06 IL’ can revert when backcrossed to M82 (Fig. 2 ). Frequency of paramutation in tomato hybrids Paramutation with perfect efficiency will be fixed very rapidly in a population and will therefore be difficult to detect. Using a wide cross such as Solanum lycopersicum cv. M82 × Solanum pennellii LA0716 increases the likelihood of detecting highly penetrant paramutation events. We based our genome-wide search for paramutation on the characteristics of H06 paramutation, which is associated with a gain of methylation in all sequence contexts and abundant sRNAs in multiple ILs at the seedling stage. We only found one other locus, Hyper1, that shared all of these characteristics, and this locus also displayed paramutation-like properties. However segregation analyses (Fig. 7 ) revealed that loci without differential sRNAs or without hypermethylation in all contexts could also engage in paramutation-like behaviours. Unexpectedly, loci that were hypomethylated in the ILs could also gain methylation upon crossing to M82. These findings suggest that paramutation-like interactions are in fact common; occurring at hundreds of loci in a M82 × IL8–3 cross. However fully penetrant paramutation is rare: primary paramutation at H06 was the most penetrant, but it displayed weak secondary paramutation (Fig. 2 ); and the penetrance of epigenetic changes and their inheritance in the seven validated loci (from seventeen tested) was incomplete. Therefore we conclude that full penetrance is rare and the IL crossing scheme may be too stringent (three consecutive backcrosses) to identify many traces of paramutation from the initial M82 × S. pennellii cross. Further studies aiming at assessing the prevalence of paramutation will need to be powered to detect incomplete penetrance. Effects on gene expression DNA methylation is primarily associated with the silencing of repeated sequences. Consistently earlier examples of paramutation are often linked with transposable elements [ 5 ]. Thus, as a mechanism of identity-based silencing, paramutation is thought to contribute to silencing multiple copies of transposable elements throughout the genome, and differential methylation may only occasionally also affect gene expression. We found no evidence for differential expression of the genes surrounding H06 in the seedling expression data set. However H06 is a target of the RIN (RIPENING INHIBITOR) transcription factor [ 30 ] and its surrounding genes are most highly expressed in the ripening fruit [ 31 ] (Additional file 9 : Figure S5), so its differential methylation may have an effect in this particular tissue. For three of the validated DMRs that engaged in paramutation-like interactions (Hyper3, Hyper4 and Hypo3), the neighbouring genes were differentially expressed in the introgression lines compared to M82 (Additional file 6 : Figure S2B). Generating novel epialleles can be a source of phenotypic diversity [ 32 , 33 ]. If the epialleles are stable enough and their epigenetic state can be efficiently controlled, epigenetic drives via paramutation may be used to improve crops. Conclusions In this study we show that interactions between natural tomato epialleles are relatively common, can lead to heritable differences in methylation, and occur mostly in one direction (gain of methylation) while stochastic loss of methylation may act as a counterbalance. There were however variations between pairs of epialleles in timing, penetrance and heritability of the gain of methylation. We propose that interactions between epigenomes should be viewed as a continuum, of which fully penetrant and fully heritable paramutation is an extreme manifestation. Taking into account the partial penetrance and stochasticity of epigenetic interactions will be crucial to properly investigate transgenerational inheritance. Methods Plant material Tomato ( Solanum lycopersicum ) cv. M82, S. lycopersicum Micro-Tom, Solanum pimpinellifolium and Solanum pennellii plants were raised from seeds in compost (Levington M3) and maintained in a growth room at 23 °C with 16/8 h light/dark periods with 60% relative humidity, at a light intensity of 150 μmol photons m − 2 .s − 1 . Unless otherwise indicated, S. pennellii refers to accession LA0716 that was used to generate the introgression lines [ 14 ]. DNA extraction DNA from leaf (2-week-old seedlings), mature flowers or pollen was extracted with the Puregene kit (QIAgen) following manufacturer’s instructions. Genotyping IL8–3 was genotyped based on the TG510 marker: the sequence was amplified with primers TG510 fw and TG510 reverse, and digested with AluI. The M82 sequence is cleaved in a 133-bp and a 245-bp fragment, while the introgressed sequence from S. pennellii remains intact (378 bp). The H06 sequence from M82 was differentiated from S. pennellii and S. pimpinellifolium by digesting H06 amplicons with HpaI. The S. pennellii and S. pimpinellifolium are digested into two fragments, 260 and 210 bp in length, while the M82 sequence remains uncut. Even brightness of the H06 genotyping bands for F1 s on an agarose gel indicate that McrBC-qPCR results should not be distorted by differences in DNA amplification efficiency between alleles. RNA extraction Total RNA samples were prepared from 100 mg of tissue using TRIzol (LifeTechnologies). VIGS H06 genomic insert was cloned into the binary TRV RNA2 vector using the KpnI and XhoI restriction sites of the multiple cloning site as described previously [ 16 , 34 ]. Cotyledons of tomato seedlings were agro-infiltrated 10 d after sowing with a 1:1mixture of Agrobacterium tumefaciens (strain GV3101:pMP90 + pSOUP) carrying TRV RNA1 and RNA2 at OD 600 = 1.5. 11 plants were succesfully infected with TRV-H06 and 6 with wild-type TRV. Viral load quantification Quantification of viral load was performed with Precision One-Step qRT-PCR (Primerdesign) on 15 ng RNA per well and normalised with TIP41 . sRNA-Seq sRNAs from leaf (2-week-old seedlings), flower and pollen of M82 (two individual plants), S. pennellii LA0716 (two plants) and their F1 (four plants) were cloned from 10 μg total RNA using the Illumina TruSeq Small RNA cloning kit and libraries were indexed during the PCR step (12 cycles) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. Gel size-selected, pooled libraries were sequenced on a HiSeq 2000 50SE. Padubiri Shivaprasad prepared Micro-Tom (one plant) and S. pimpinellifolium (one plant) sRNA libraries from the aerial part of two-week-old seedlings according to [ 15 ]. Sequences were trimmed and filtered with Trim Galore! (with the adapter parameter ‘-a TGGAATTCTCGGGTGCCAAGG’). Mapping to H06 ( S. pennellii and M82 sequences) was performed with Bowtie 1.1.1 [ 35 ] without mismatches (options ‘-v 0 -a’). sRNA counts on H06 in Fig. 1 were obtained by mapping sRNA libraries from [ 15 ] to Heinz genome SL2.50 with Bowtie 1.1.1 without mismatches (options ‘-v 0 -a’), and extracting the counts for the interval “SL2.50ch08:54487325–54,487,842”. We found that there was a mistake in the labelling of the libraries deposited in [ 15 ]: the libraries labelled IL1–1, IL2–5, IL8–1-1, IL8–1-D, IL8–1-3, IL8–2, IL8–2-1, IL8–3 and IL8–3-1 actually correspond to IL8–3-1, IL8–3, IL8–2-1, ILH8–2, IL8–1-5, IL8–1- D, IL8–1-1, IL2–5 and IL1–1. For convenience the correctly labelled sRNA libraries for the introgression lines used in this study (IL1–1, IL2–5 and IL8–3) are included in the GEO data set. To find differential sRNA loci between M82 and ILs, sRNA libraries from IL1–1, IL2–5, IL8–3 and two M82 seedlings (from [ 15 ]) were mapped and clustered on Heinz genome SL2.50 using ShortStack v3.3.3 [ 36 ] with default parameters. sRNA counts on the defined loci were analysed with DESeq2 v1.8.1 [ 37 ]. Gene expression analysis Transcript counts for two-week-old IL1–1, IL2–5, IL8–3 and M82 seedlings from [ 17 ] were analysed with DESeq2 [ 37 ] with the design factors ‘condition’ (sun or shade), ‘experimental batch’, and ‘genotype’ (either IL or M82). In each of the five experimental replications, there were 4 M82 and 1 IL1–1, 1 IL2–5, and 1 IL8–3 in each treatment (sun or shade), totalling 40 M82 and 30 IL libraries on which to run the differential expression analysis. Genes were considered differentially expressed between genotypes when the adjusted p -value was for the ‘genotype’ factor was < 0.05. Gene ontology enrichment analysis Differentially expressed gene IDs were tested for gene ontology term enrichment against the full set of S. lycopersicum genes with the PANTHER Overrepresentation Test (Released 20,171,205) ( http://geneontology.org/ , GO Ontology database Released 2017–12-27, Fisher’s exact test with FDR multiple test correction). Analysis of DNA methylation Analysis of methylation by McrBC was performed as previously described in [ 16 ]. Sanger bisulfite For Sanger bisulfite sequencing, 450 ng of DNA was bisulfite-converted with EZ DNA Methylation-Gold Kit (Zymo Research) and amplified with primers specific to the region and the Kapa Uracil+ HotStart DNA polymerase (Kapa Bioscience). Amplification products were size selected on a 1.5% agarose gel and gel extracted with the QIAquick gel extraction kit (QIAgen), A-tailed following the same protocol as for the library preparation (below), and cloned into pGEM-T easy (Promega). Sequences aligned with MUSCLE were then analysed with CyMATE [ 38 ] and PCR-duplicates were removed. Each figure represents at least nine independent clones. MethylC-Seq Bisulfite library preparation was performed in duplicates for each genotype with a custom protocol similar to ref. [ 39 ]. 1.2 μg DNA was sonicated on a Covaris E220 to a target size of 400 bp and purified on XP beads (Ampure, ratio 1.8). DNA was end-repaired and A-tailed using T4 DNA polymerase and Klenow Fragment (NEB) and purified again using XP beads (ratio 1.8×). Methylated Illumina Y-shaped adapters for paired-end sequencing were ligated using Quick-Stick Ligase (Bioline). 450 ng of purified (ratio 1.8×), adapter-ligated DNA was bisulfite-converted using EZ DNA Methylation-Gold Kit (Zymo Research) according to manufacturer’s instructions. DNA was barcoded using 12 cycles of PCR amplification with KAPA HiFi HotStart Uracil+ Ready Mix (Kapabiosystems) with PE1.0 and custom index primers (courtesy of the Sanger Institute). Duplicate libraries for M82, IL1–1, IL2–5 and IL8–3 (leaves of two-week-old seedlings) were sequenced in paired-end mode. Reads were trimmed and filtered with Trim Galore! v0.4.2 (default parameters), then mapped on Heinz genome SL2.50 using Bismark v0.17.0 [ 40 ] (first in paired-end mode with options ‘–score-min L,0,-0.2 -p 4 –reorder –ignore quals –no-mixed –no-discordant –unmapped’, then unmapped read1 was mapped in single-end mode with the same quality parameter ‘-N 1’). Reads were deduplicated with ‘bismark deduplicate’ and methylation calls were extracted using Bismark ‘methylation extractor’ (with options ‘-r2 2’ for paired-end reads). Based on Bismark’s cytosine report, methylated and unmethylated counts for cytosines of both strands were pooled into 300-bp bins sliding by 200 bp and separated by context (CG, CHG, and CHH). Bins with fewer than 10 counts or with coverage exceeding the 99 th percentile in one or more libraries were excluded from the analysis. We also excluded the introgressed regions: ch01 1–86 Mb, ch02 44–54 Mb and ch08 61 Mb – 65,866,657 bp (end of chromosome). Each introgression line was then compared to M82 by fitting a logistic regression on the methylated and unmethylated counts (R glm with ‘family = binomial’). The p -values were subjected to a Benjamini-Hochberg correction to control the false discovery rate at 5%. Differentially methylated bins were further filtered by imposing thresholds on the absolute difference in methylation (average of replicates) between M82 and the introgression line: a difference of 25% in the CG context, 20% in CHG and 10% in CHH. DMRs were constructed by merging overlapping differentially methylated bins. We included the region Hyper2 into the McrBC validation analysis despite it being inside the introgressed region in IL2–5, because it was hypermethylated in CG, CHG and CHH contexts and produced abundant sRNAs in IL1–1 and IL8–3, thus making it a likely candidate for paramutation. Chloroplast DNA was used as a control for bisulfite conversion efficiency, and sequencing statistics are collected in Additional file 1 . Oligonucleotides Please refer to Additional file 10 . Abbreviations