https://regnum.ru/pictures/2353098/4.html” rel=”nofollow”>the island of Shikotan 
Let us remind the reader the circumstances of this disavowing. 
19 Oct 1956, signed a Joint Declaration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan, in the 9th paragraph which the Soviet Union under the pressure of Khrushchev agreed to “transfer of Japan of Islands Habomai and island Shikotan provided, however, that the actual transfer of these Islands to Japan will be made after the conclusion of a Peace Treaty between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan”. On 27 November a Joint Declaration was unanimously ratified by the house of representatives of the Japanese Parliament, December 2 — 3 against the house of councillors. 8 Dec the ratification of the Joint Declaration and other documents approved by the Emperor of Japan. On the same day it was ratified by the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. Then 12 Dec 1956 in Tokyo, the ceremony of the exchange of letters that meant the introduction of the Joint Declaration annexed to the Protocol into force. 
However, the USA in the categorical form has demanded to reject the conclusion of the Soviet-Japanese peace Treaty on the terms of the Joint Declaration. After the resignation of the government of Ichiro Hatoyama’s new Cabinet of Ministers of Japan headed by Tanzan Ishibashi , and after three month he was replaced by Pro-American configured , Nobusuke Kishi (grandfather of the current Prime Minister of Japan Shinzo Abe ). Although he first said in Parliament about the intention to conclude a peace Treaty with the Soviet Union, and, yielding to US pressure, started to walk away from negotiations on this issue. To “substantiate” that position again illegal demands were made to “return” to Japan the largest and mastered the four South Kuril Islands. It was a clear departure from the provisions of the Joint Declaration. The Soviet government acted in strict compliance with the agreements. The Soviet Union refused to receive reparations from Japan, agreed to release on parole serving the punishment of Japanese war criminals, supported Japan’s request for admission to UN. 
7 
Yann 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2353098/7.html” rel=”nofollow”>Geneva, UN 
In accordance with the terms of the Joint Declaration of 6 December 1957, was signed the Soviet-Japanese trade agreement and the agreement on trade and payments. It should be noted that this was the first in the entire history of Soviet-Japanese relations document of this kind. He provided each of the parties the most-favoured-nation. The term of the contract was defined in five years. The result was not long in coming — in 1958, the total amount of trade between the two countries amounted to $ 40 million: more than double in 1957. Following in 1959, the turnover amounted to 63 million dollars, exceeding the previous year in half. 
The results of the trade-economic and cultural cooperation between two neighboring Nations could be even more impressive if not a conscious resistance to Japanese and overseas opponents of the Soviet-Japanese good-neighborliness. Suffice it to say obstruction of the anti-Soviet forces agreement between the two countries cultural agreements with the signing of which made the Soviet government in June 1958. In this issue also revealed the pressure Washington is not interested in the acquaintance of the Japanese with the authentic image of the Soviet Union and its people. Revealing the background of the government’s refusal to sign the agreement, the Japanese newspaper wrote that “the office of the Ministry of foreign Affairs is extremely passive refers to the issue of concluding a cultural agreement, considering that the development of relations with the Soviet Union in the field of culture can bring social harm,”“if Japan had gone on the conclusion of cultural agreements with the Soviet Union, it would bring on themselves the distrust of the countries of the free world (read — the United States — A. K.)”. 
A very negative impact on bilateral political relations has provided the course of study of the Center for further involvement of Japan in military strategy of the United States in the far East. Conclusion in 1960 directed against USSR and people’s Republic of China the new Japan-us security Treaty has further complicated the resolution of the question of the boundary between Japan and the Soviet Union, because in the current political and military situation of the cold war, any territorial concessions to Japan would contribute to the expansion of the territory used by foreign troops. Besides strengthening against the Soviet Union, military cooperation between Japan and the United States was very painfully perceived personally by Khrushchev. He was outraged by the actions of Tokyo, regarded them as an insult, lack of respect for his efforts aimed at finding a compromise on the territorial issue. Failed and the plan of Khrushchev by the “detachment” of Japan from the United States. 
6 
Mass Communication Specialist 2nd Class Clifford L. H. Davis 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2353098/6.html” rel=”nofollow”>US Military bases in Japan 
The reaction of the Soviet leader was rapid. On his orders, the Soviet foreign Ministry, 27 January 1960, sent to the government of Japan aide-Memoire, which stated that “only in case of withdrawal of all foreign troops from the territory of Japan and the signing of the peace Treaty between the USSR and Japan of Islands Habomai and Shikotan would be transferred to Japan, as envisaged by the Joint Declaration of the USSR and Japan from October 19, 1956”. 
This Tokyo said: “the Government of Japan could not endorse the position of the Soviet Union, who put forward new conditions for the implementation of the provisions of the Joint Declaration on the territorial issue and thereby trying to change the content of the Declaration. Our country will relentlessly seek the return not only us Islands Habomai and island Shikotan, but also other primordial Japanese territories”. 
The ratio of Japanese Joint Declaration of 1956 is the following: “during the negotiations on the conclusion of a peace Treaty between Japan and the Soviet Union in October 1956, the top leaders of both countries signed a Joint Declaration of Japan and the USSR, according to which the parties agreed to continue negotiations on a peace Treaty and normalized relations between our countries. Despite the fact that as a result of these negotiations the Soviet Union agreed “to transfer Japan a group of Islands Habomai and island Shikotan” to return to the island of Kunashir and Iturup the consent of the USSR has been received. See also: The US has surpassed Russia by volume of recoverable oil 
Joint Declaration of Japan and Soviet Union of 1956 represents an important diplomatic document, which was ratified by the parliaments of each of those States. This document equal in its legal effect the contract. It is not a document, whose contents could change only one notification. In the Joint Declaration of Japan and Soviet Union had clearly recorded that the Soviet Union “agrees to transfer to Japan the group of Habomai Islands and Shikotan island”, and this transfer is not accompanied by any conditions that would constitute a reservation…” 
5 
Illustration: Defense.gov 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2353098/5.html” rel=”nofollow”>American military base in Japan 
With this interpretation of the meaning of the Joint Declaration could be acceptable if not for one important “but”. The Japanese side is unwilling to admit the obvious — given the island under the agreement could be transferred only after the conclusion of a peace Treaty… And this was the main and indispensable condition. In Japan, for some reason, decided that the issue of Habomai and Shikotan has been solved, and for signing a peace Treaty supposedly it is necessary to solve also a question on Kunashir and Iturup, the transfer of which the Soviet government never agreed. It is this contrary to the contents of the Joint Declaration and the position is a new additional condition Tokyo, on the inadmissibility of the nomination which said the Japanese side. This position was invented in the 50-60 ones aim, putting forward obviously unacceptable for Moscow conditions for years to block the process of concluding a Japan-Soviet peace Treaty. 
To justify the unwillingness to settle the bilateral relations, the Japanese government encouraged the escalation in the country anti-Soviet sentiment, openly accused the USSR of “the seizure of originally Japanese lands.” From the state budget and donations of big business formed the Foundation for financing noisy campaign “for the return of the Northern territories”, under which it was understood in the Soviet Union Kuril Islands — Kunashir, Iturup, Habomai and Shikotan. Started “cartographic aggression” on all geographical maps of Japan, including school, the island, and often all the Kuril Islands began to be painted in the colors of the Japanese territory. While southern Sakhalin was left unpainted as an alleged “disputed territory”. That claim to the South Kuril Islands, only the first step, showed published in October 1961, the so-called “common opinion” of the ruling liberal democratic party (LDP). In this document, notwithstanding the refusal of the Japanese government in the San Francisco peace Treaty “rights, title and claim” to the Kuril Islands, claimed that “the Islands of Habomai and Shikotan are part of Hokkaido”, the Islands of Kunashir and Iturup belongs to Japan, and “the question of southern Sakhalin and the Northern Kuril Islands needs to solve an international conference of interested countries”. 
3 
Anatoly Gruzevich 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2353098/3.html” rel=”nofollow”>Kuril Islands 
Describing the elected official of Tokyo’s policy towards the USSR, Professor of the University of California, ethnic Japanese Tsuyoshi Hasegawa said: “the Changes that occurred in the years of the cold war, did not happen in Soviet-Japanese relations, they have occurred in relations between the US and the Soviet Union, when the allies during the war became enemies, and the United States and Japan which were enemies during the war, become allies… the US Goal was to involve Japan in its global strategy, the U.S. sought to avoid anti-Americanism and nationalism… the problem of the Northern territories has helped to integrate Japan into the global strategy of the United States and, taking Japanese nationalism from myself, to direct it against the Soviet Union… in fact, after the restoration of diplomatic relations with Moscow, we can say that Tokyo was not on Soviet foreign policy direction — only “policy of the Northern territories”… the Problem of the Northern territories had acted as a valve to vent steam in international relations in the far East. From this point of view it was important that the territorial dispute remained unresolved. Hence the tough stance of Japan, demanding the immediate return of all the Islands and refusing to discuss the proposals on the transfer of the territories.” 
Taken after arrival on a post of President Vladimir Putin’s attempts to revive the “Czech compromise” on the assignment of the Japan Islands of Shikotan and ridges Habomai did not take into account the terms of the Aide-Memoire to the Soviet foreign Ministry, 27 January 1960 on the withdrawal of foreign troops from the territory of Japan, although the Russian government this note is not canceled and not disavowed. So, officially, the position taken against foreign troops in Japan have not abandoned, which is a visible manifestation recently in connection with strengthening the Japan-us military Alliance, directed not only against China and the DPRK, and the Russian Federation. 
Vladimir Putin: “Stop the Kuril ping-pong” 
https://regnum.ru/analytics/polit.html” rel=”nofollow”>Politics Part 2. The aggravation of the military-political situation in northeast Asia does not allow any territorial concessions to Russia, Japan 
3 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2353686/1.html” rel=”nofollow”>Soviet soldiers with captured Japanese flags. 1945 

https://regnum.ru/analytics/author/anatoliy_koshkin.html” rel=”nofollow”>ANATOLY KOSHKIN https://regnum.ru/news/2017-12-05.html” rel=”nofollow”>December 5, 2017, 23:29 — REGNUM 
For the first time as Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke about the territorial claims of Japan, answering the question is not Japanese, but their fellow citizens. On the eve of the first official visit to Japan in September 2000, he visited Sakhalin, where he assured area residents that the “return of the island is not going to.” This statement discourage the Japanese, but not for long. Since Yeltsin Tokyo politicians have learned to distinguish between the statements of the Russian officials made “for internal use”, that is, for the Russian audience, and the real goals and intentions of Moscow, manifested in the negotiations behind closed doors. 
Although the high Russian guest tried to persuade the Japanese side to discuss primarily the issues of development of trade-economic relations, to avoid the issue of the border, the Japanese could not afford. Since no fundamentally new approaches to the resolution of the territorial dispute, neither Tokyo nor Moscow was not, decided to limit repetition of the former “Yeltsin” wording. In the Russian-Japanese joint statement on the visit included a paragraph, which read: “the Parties agreed to continue negotiations in order to, based on all achieved so far the agreement… to develop a peace Treaty by solving the question of ownership of Islands of Etorofu, Kunashiri, Shikotan and Habomai”. Thus, as under Yeltsin, these incoming according to the Constitution of the Russian Federation in the Russian land in fact was recognized as controversial. 
Agreeing on such record, Putin at the same time rejected the idea of the Japanese government on the so-called demarcation of the Sino-Russian border, under which the border line of the two countries were transferred to the North and would pass between the Islands Iturup and Urup, which meant the transfer of all of the South Kuril Islands into the possession of Japan. Instead, the President in conversation with the Japanese Prime Minister rather hinted at the possibility of a different approach, mentioning that the Russian side is guided not only by Yeltsin signed joint statements for 1993 and 1998, but the Joint Declaration of the USSR and Japan of 1956. However, he disavowed the promises Yeltsin “to sign a peace Treaty by the year 2000”. It was explained that the statements of the former President it was only about the desire to “make efforts” to reach mutually acceptable agreements. 
The hint was understood — the Japanese newspaper has said that Putin acknowledged for the first time the validity of the Joint Declaration, and, therefore, will continue negotiations on the territorial issue. It was noted that “Putin became the first of the current Russian leaders, recognized the authority of the Declaration and the possibility of its use as a legal basis for continuation of talks between the two countries related to their territorial dispute”. The conclusion was drawn about the propensity of a new President to seek solutions to the political conflict with Japan that led Tokyo to optimism. 
The fact that Putin got it right, in fact, confirmed by representatives of the Russian foreign Ministry that in my remarks to Japanese journalists chose not to confirm, but not deny such an interpretation of the President’s comments. Putin himself at a press conference in Tokyo confined itself to stating the complexity of the situation. 
“What you need to do for final solution of the problem that exists between Russia and Japan?” he asked a question and he answered it: “If we knew a hundred percent, then perhaps now would be on other issues”. 
It should be noted that occupied by Putin, but rather imposed on diplomats even from Yeltsin’s entourage position contained a contradiction. On the one hand, the joint statement of the objects of the dispute again called all the southern Kuril Islands, which are claimed by Japan, and on the other there is a line to return to the terms of the Joint Declaration of 1956 where it is only about the Islands of Habomai and Shikotan. 
Catching the mood of Putin to seek a “final solution”, Japanese politicians decided to help in this search. The plan was to drag the Russian government at discussion of concrete questions about the “return” at the Islands of Habomai and Shikotan. Held in March 2001 in Irkutsk the meeting of the two leaders, confidentially Putin agreed to discuss the option of transfer of Japan of the lesser Kuril ridge (Islands Habomai and island Shikotan). According to then Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori , Putin said that if re-elected President for a second term ready to negotiate over Shikotan and Habomai. According to the former Japanese Prime Minister, was said verbatim the following: “the Transfer to Japan the Habomai and Shikotan now difficult to implement. But if I get re-elected for a second term, I will make every effort to return Japan to these Islands”. Subsequently, the Russian foreign Ministry refused to confirm this statement.