Home / policy / The US has threatened sanctions to builders, “Nord stream-2” The US has threatened sanctions to builders, “Nord stream-2” 7 hours ago policy 2 Views 
Foreign companies operating in the construction of the pipeline “Nord stream-2” can fall under US sanctions in the framework of the law “On combating the enemies of America by sanctions” (CAATSA). This was stated by state Department spokesman Heather Nauert. 
“Companies operating in the Russian sector associated with the construction of pipelines between Russia and other countries, may be subject to sanctions in accordance with CAATSA” she said, adding that the US is not going to comment on its plans to introduce restrictions. 
While Nauert noted that the US government opposed the “Nord stream-2”. “We believe that this pipeline will undermine the overall energy security and stability of Europe. It will give Russia another tool to exert pressure on European countries, especially such as Ukraine,” she said. See also: Iran has threatened to shoot down two spy plane USA 
March 13, Deputy assistant Secretary for energy diplomacy Sandra Odekirk said that the blocking of the pipeline “Nord stream-2” will not affect the foreign policy of Russia. According to her, U.S. legislation obliges the U.S. side to impose sanctions against the Russian project. 
March 16, a group of senators from the Republican and Democratic parties, the United States demanded that the administration of President Donald trump has blocked the pipeline project. “We must make it clear to our European allies that we are determined to maintain their energy independence and to protect them from the pernicious influence of the “Nord stream-2″ in the long term”, — stated in the text of the message. See also: Eurovision as a field for political manifestos 
“Nord stream-2” project of a gas pipeline from Russia to Germany through the Baltic sea. The project is implemented by Nord Stream AG 2, 51 percent of which is owned by Gazprom. The new pipeline is scheduled to enter into operation before the end of 2019. Its total capacity will be 55 billion cubic meters of gas per year.  