Industry Update Supplier News 20 March 2018 Nor1 Welcomes Hospitality Industry Veteran Stuart Derricott as Director of Business Development, UK and Ireland to Expand and Strengthen Client and Industry Relationships in the Region 
– Nor1, the leader in hospitality merchandising technology is proud to announce and welcome Stuart Derricott as Director of Business Development for UK and Ireland. Mr. Derricott will be responsible for expanding adoption of the Nor1 Pricing & Merchandising Intelligence Platform and developing and strengthening relationships with hotel groups and Hospitality Industry partners in the region. 
"I am very excited to be working with Nor1's amazingly versatile product suite and great team of dedicated professionals" said Stuart Derricott, Director of Business Development, UK and Ireland. "I'm eager to expand the partnerships with our existing client base and help new clients realize how dramatically the Nor1 Pricing & Merchandising Intelligence Platform can increase revenue and guest satisfaction for their properties." 
Mr. Derricott most recently held positions as VP Global Sales in the Connectivity and Channel Management sectors of the Hospitality Industry and previously had an extensive career in senior management roles in the Retail Supply sector. Mr. Derricott holds a degree in Business Management and has gained many years of experience in Sales and Marketing though developing the UK market for both Multinational and Startup businesses. 
"We are very pleased and excited to welcome Stuart to the Nor1 Team," said Jason G. Bryant, Nor1's Founder and CEO. "We are confident that his knowledge, leadership ability and variety of experience in the Hospitality Industry and Hospitality Technology Sales will not only be a great asset to Nor1 by expanding adoption of the Nor1 Pricing & Merchandising Intelligence Platform throughout the UK and Ireland, but also to hoteliers in the region by helping them maximize revenue, enhance guest satisfaction and create operation efficiencies at their properties." About Nor1, Inc. 
Nor1, Inc. is the leader in hospitality merchandising technology. Headquartered in Silicon Valley, with offices in Germany, Mexico, Singapore and India, Nor1 provides data-driven pricing and merchandising solutions to maximize incremental revenues for hotels and resorts worldwide such as Hilton, IHG, Radisson Hotel Group, Accor, and Wyndham. Nor1′s patented, dynamic decisions intelligence engine PRiME ® , powers Nor1′s Merchandising Platform including its signature eStandby Upgrade ® , eXpress Upgrade ™, CheckIn Merchandising ™, and eReach ™ products. 
Nor1 is creating the fusion between technology and guest experience. It's that combination of expertise and skill that have set Nor1 apart and continues to attract technology's most distinguished investors such as Concur Technologies, Goldman Sachs and Accel Partners. For more information, please visit www.nor1.com .