35,1K 78,6K Software-update: LyX 2.3 
LyX is een opensource- en crossplatform-systeem waarmee documenten kunnen worden opgemaakt. Kort door de bocht is het een grafische gebruikersinterface voor TeX en LaTeX . Het wordt vooral in de academische wereld gebruikt, omdat het eenvoudig formules kan samenstellen en een overzicht van de documentstructuur toont. In tegenstelling tot reguliere tekstverwerkers die het wysiwyg -principe gebruiken, maakt LyX gebruik van wysiwym . Meer informatie over LyX kan op deze pagina worden gevonden. Versie 2.3 is uitgekomen en de aankondiging daarvan ziet er als volgt uit: Public release of LyX version 2.3.0 We are proud to announce the release of LyX 2.3.0. With this release, LyX celebrates 22 years of existence. The 2.3 series has a rich set of new features compared to the current stable series. LyX 2.3.0 is the culmination of two years of hard work. An overview of the new features can be found here .You can download LyX 2.3.0 from https://www.lyx.org/Download . Unfortunately, official Windows binaries are not available at this time.If a file from an earlier version of LyX is opened *and saved* with any version of 2.3.x, then the original file will automatically be backed up. The backup file will be found in the backup directory, if one is set under Tools> Preferences> Paths, or else in the same folder as the original file, if no backup directory is set. The filename of the backup file will be: ORIGNAME-lyxformat-NUM.lyx~where NUM is the LyX format number of the original file. In the case of a 2.2.x file, this will be 508, but in the case of older files it will be different.The file lib/RELEASE-NOTES lists some known issues and problems compared to the current stable releases (LyX 2.2.x). We strongly recommend that packagers of LyX on various platforms and distributions read this file. As with any major release, this one comes with a lot of new features but also some bugs. If you think you have found a bug in LyX 2.3.0, either email the LyX developers' mailing list (lyx-devel at lists.lyx.org), or open a bug report . Please specify if the behavior you are reporting is different from behavior in a previous LyX version. Versienummer