Alfa partners with Nokia to deploy 3G and LTE   08:23 CET | News 
Lebanese operator Alfa has partnered with Nokia to deploy 3G and LTE-Advanced Pro using Nokia AirScale equipment. This will provide an enhanced voice and mobile broadband experience to Alfa's subscribers in Lebanon, Alfa said, adding that this was the first deployment of Nokia's 5G-ready AirScale base station in Lebanon. In addition, the two companies signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) at Mobile World Congress (MWC) to further evolve Alfa's network by applying the Nokia AirScale system across 3G, 4G and 5G radio technologies, including CAT16 use cases. 
The MoU also aims to leverage Internet of Things (IoT), small cells and automation solutions, as well as Nokia's latest network optimization services, innovations and analytical tools to pave the way for next-generation mobile broadband services which Alfa will pioneer in Lebanon. 
Under the AirScale deployment agreement, Alfa will use Nokia's AirScale equipment to deploy a 3G and LTE-Advanced Pro network, which will enable it to introduce new services later in 2018, including Voice over LTE (VoLTE) and LTE-Advanced Pro. The contract also marks the first time that Nokia's energy-efficient AirScale technology will be used in Alfa's networks. Nokia's AirScale Single Radio Access Network (SRAN) solution will be used to deploy 3G and LTE-A Pro. 
4G LTE-A utilizes carrier aggregation technology, which brings together spectrum from two frequency bands for improved speed and spectral efficiency. Nokia will combine spectrum from 800 MHz and 1800 MHz frequency bands for the implementation of LTE-A for Alfa. 
The deployment will ensure seamless availability of voice services and align with Alfa's plan to gradually shut down its 2G network and re-farm the spectrum for LTE services. A host of Nokia services will ensure a smooth deployment, including project management, Network Planning and Optimization, Care and training services. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.