indiatoday.in March 21, 2018 
Google this week announced a few new initiatives to combat fake news because the search giant says it wants good journalism to succeed. The company launched the Google News Initiative (GNI), a $300 million project that will look to “elevate and strengthen quality journalism” among other things. In addition to this, the company has also announced Subscribe with Google, that makes it easier for you to subscribe to your favourite news publications and access them anywhere. 
Talking about the Google News Initiative first, the company believes that fake news is still a persistent issue despite efforts from its part and from other platforms like Facebook and Twitter to weed them out over the years, especially since the US presidential election. Google in a blog post accepts that it is “becoming increasingly difficult to distinguish what’s true (and not true) online.” Simply put, Google feels it needs to do more. 
In its commitment to seeing good journalism succeed, Google said that the Google News Initiative first will focus on three objectives – to elevate and strengthen quality journalism, evolve business models to drive sustainable growth and empower news organisations through technological innovation. The first one will look to combat misinformation during breaking news situations. “We’ve trained our systems to recognize these events and adjust our signals toward more authoritative content,” Google said. 
The second part of the initiative involves helping news organisations grow their digital revenue. Google believes that people want to pay for good journalism, which is why it has announced Subscribe with Google, which is a two-way street wherin Google is not only providing a simpler way for users to subscribe to and access various news outlets, but also help publishers drive up their revenue. 
Instead of having to go to individual news sites and subscribing to them by providing your credit/debit card information every time, Subscribe with Google will let you buy a subscription using the card(s) stored in your Google account to make the process as simple as a click of the mouse. Once subscribed, you’ll be able to use “Sign In with Google” to access the publisher from any device that is signed in to your Google account. 
This isn’t the first time companies like Google and Facebook have announced such initiatives. Facebook has tried to help bring publishers to the fore by tweaking its algorithm over the past year, only to see its efforts go in vain. Seeing as how it was unable to weed out fake news, the company’s CEO Mark Zuckerberg chose instead to show fewer posts from publishers and give more importance to posts from friends and family. But let’s not talk about Facebook right now. The company is facing a dumpster fire of a week after news broke that it shared data of around 50 million users with political data analytics company Cambridge Analytica. So in case you’ve given up on Facebook after all of this, Google promises to have you covered, at least as far as relevant news goes. ALSO READ