OldTwitter 
Someone reading this may ask “why bother”, they’ll remove everything when they delete your account, right? “Who knows”, is my answer. It’s up to them to do what they want with the data. Maybe it just gets archived so they still have some record. Maybe its in an archive somewhere as the “last known information” kept somewhere like Zillow keeps of your house even if it’s not on the market anywhere. 
I had to click “unlike” to my parents 50th anniversary pictures, to my Mom saying “thank you for the birthday flowers”. I deleted my last conversations with an ex-girlfriend and the last (and probably first) post bragging about my ex-wife’s accomplishments almost 10 years ago. In combing through I saw messages and avatars from friends who have now blocked me. There are more than one. I deleted posts I had made from an Art Blog that I used to maintain, the last remnants from another purge I’ve made before. Probably the hardest message to delete was an exchange with one of my favorite teachers in High School who has now passed away. I literally deleted his words to me which he would never write again. 
I’ve been down this road before. I always struggle with the balance of privacy and being social. Even in person I walk a bizarre line of oversharing and silence. I find myself being transparent and yet protecting my inner feelings from others. Like here, why am I sharing this with you? I honestly don’t know. It may be deleted some day as well. I guess I’m telling you a story of something that is both normal and relate-able but still very personal to me. I think its inherently human to want to share yourself with others. Even the most introverted of us (and believe me, I’m probably pretty close to being in that group) needs to relate to people and society. Even if it’s just a small subset of people with very specific likes and dislikes, it’s healthy for us to understand how we align to the rest of humanity. 
Facebook knows this. Social media sites know this. They know we want to share. The victim angle on this says that it’s their responsibility to be more responsible with the data that they have. I don’t play the victim card though, it’s not my style. If someone you trust is abusing you, walk away and don’t look back. So I’m not looking back. I still can’t help feeling that something needs to change though. Since I can’t make Facebook do anything about it, I have to settle with my own message to them, delete my account. 
I think I’ll spend the time actually writing birthday cards and sending them to the people whose addresses I actually know. Maybe I’ll send Christmas cards for the first time in 30 years, reminding family and friends that I love them and care about them. If I meet someone and want to talk to them again I’ll ask for their phone number instead of finding them on Facebook later. Life is real, not virtual. There has to be other ways to connect with each other instead of getting snippets of our friends lives from a curated algorithm that siphons our content, our opinions and our conversations and then filters them back to us interspersed with constant advertising that knows more about us than we know about ourselves. 
If only our doctors knew as much about us as the companies that are advertising to us. 