Ray Moylette ready to prove his pro credentials with U.S. TV fight By Joe O'Neill | on March 20,   
Ray Moylette [8(3)-0] had pretty much the perfect first year as a pro and the Mayo lightweight is now ready to really kick on in 2018. 
Eight fights and eight wins came in 2017 and the 27-year-old is now primed for an appearance on U.S. TV as he rattles toward big title fights. 
On Saturday March 31st on a Golden Boy on ESPN card, Moylette will fight in the live TV swing bout on a card at the Quincy SportPlex in Massachusetts. 
On a bill which also features Mark DeLuca and Donegal’s Jason Quigley, Moylette will take on Salem’s Matt Doherty [8(4)-3(0)-1] over six rounds which will be aired coast-to-coast. Widgets Magazine 
It’s been a rapid rise in the pros for the 2011 European gold medalist who explained to Irish-Boxing.com how “last year was all about trying to learn the ropes and make a breakthrough, get a name for myself – I have done that to a degree, eight fights, I’m one of the busiest pros in Ireland.” 
“That was sheer hard work. In fairness, most of my fights, they weren’t ‘hard’ fights, but I still had to beat them and stay conditioned all year round. That was a credit to my training and to my commitment.” 
“I’ve done the donkey work, got my name out there, my record up, a relatively high enough ranking, hopefully now I’ll start pushing for domestic titles early this year in North America and Ireland.” 
‘Sugar’ Ray, who divides his time between Islandeady and Paschal Collins’s Celtic Warriors Gym in Corduff, can really feel himself developing in the pros. 
Moylette described how “I’ve had to slow down and learn the little tricks as a pro that Paschal has been teaching me.” 
“My conditioning has definitely improved, I can jump in and do seven or eight rounds with anyone in the gym.” 
“I’ve learnt a lot in the past year but, by all means, I’ve a lot more to learn.” 
Like a lot of his gym-mates, Moylette’s star has perhaps been rising quicker in Boston than it has in Ireland. 
The former top amateur acknowledges he may not be an attractive proposition for a lot of his Irish rivals and is thankfully that a fight has been built with Doherty. 
The 2008 World Youth Champion outlined how “no one’s really looking for me yet because I don’t boast any titles and I’m a relative newcomer. I debuted in March last year.” 
“The fighters over here in Ireland, they know me through the amateurs and there’s no-one really in a position to call me out because I’ve no titles to offer them and I’m a dangerous fight for them all.” 
“I’m not at a standard where I should be getting called out. But, in America I’ve had five fights and I have built a bit of my name for myself over there in Boston, a following – my brother is over there. Maybe my name is more established over there among the fighters.” 
“This guy, Matt Doherty, he made up a bit of a story last year, he caused a bit of a rivalry. I’ve no problem with that, he’s trying to make a name for himself over there with the Irish community and I’m trying to do the same.” 
“It will be a good fight between the two of us, but I’ve no doubt in my mind that I’ll come out on top.” 
Next Saturday, Moylette hopes, will be the first of many in a busy 2018. The Westerner has big ambitions and wants to reach continental level very soon. 
“I’m happy with the route I’m going,” he said. 
“Hopefully I’ll be pushing on to European level at the end of the year or early next year.” 
“It’s a big year ahead. My name is made and it’s time to concrete that evidence that I am that fighter I am and that I have something to offer the pro game.” 
Photo Credit: Laszlo Geczo Photography Share this: