Home / economy / Experts told about the grim future of Putin’s economy Experts told about the grim future of Putin’s economy 1 hour ago economy 0 Views 
Vladimir Putin elected President of Russia? all wondering – what will happen now with the country further. On the one hand, you can not fear shocks and unpredictability as it was in the USA with Donald trump, with the other old problems of the country may remain forever unresolved: sanctions, poverty, low birth rate, a high share of government in the economy, unfavorable business climate. 
“MK” asked the experts what to expect from economic policy in the new term of the old President, which will roll ruble and calculate whether the long-awaited change for the better. 
The continuation of stagnation and the economy and the fulfilment of election promises is awaiting a senior researcher at the economic policy Institute named E. T. Gaidar, Sergei Zhavoronkov. “Vladimir Putin is unable to change its economic policy because of the interests of state corporations, led by his friends. See also: Oil shock: that will bring down the price of a barrel 
In the message to the Federal Assembly, he said a lot of things right, but those right things he says throughout the 18 years of reign. It’s not even populism, and the complete divergence of words and actions. He said that the government will reduce the share in the economy, and it increases. Said that will reduce the burden on business, but due to customs, trade, and other non-tax fees in fact increases. Before the last elections in 2012, his speech also sounded promising, but in reality, the course went in the opposite direction,”– said the expert. 
The Director of analytical Department of Alpari, Alexander Razuvaev is less critical and speculate about what awaits the Russian national currency in the new political cycle. “Russians are afraid of the devaluation and the inflation shock, which is supposed to happen immediately after the election, but yet the fear of the ruble is not worth it. However, the rate can move both up and down under the influence of various market factors: the price of oil, the fed rate, the Bank of Russia. Despite the fact that the Russian economy is fully adapted to the sanctions and oil prices, the ruble is pushing confrontation with the West, geopolitics, the uncertainty of the future shape of the Russian Prime Minister,”– said in an interview with “MK” analyst.  