Source: Annual statistical Bulletin of OPEC for 2017 
The new energy hub of the Eastern Mediterranean 
The expert of the International Agency for renewable energy Jalal Othman in an interview with the international Arabic daily newspaper “Al-Sharq al-Awsat” said that Cairo intends to make significant economic gains from its deal with Israel: Arab Republic seeks to restore the two available at her site LNG plants, international arbitration to resolve disputes and to turn the country into a regional energy hub. 
“It is the moment when, finally, all the talk about Egypt turning into a regional gas hub becomes a reality,” — said Riccardo Fabiani, chief expert of the Eurasia Group on the Middle East. And today all the prerequisites for this do exist. 
On the North coast of Egypt has two LNG production plant. The first of them — the Egyptian LNG project, located in the city Edku in the governorate of Beheira. The second factory is located in the port area of Damietta and owned by the Spanish-Italian company Fenosa Gas. Construction of the two Egyptian plants at the time cost $ 3.2 billion, but now projects are worth about 16 billion. 
In addition to the capacity to produce LNG Egypt also has resources that the country intends again to begin exporting in the near future, confirmed the Ministry of petroleum of Egypt. With the start of gas production from Egyptian fields of Zohr in December in Cairo is planning to meet all its needs for natural gas by the end of this year, to gain energy independence and, according to Claudio Descalzi, CEO of Italian oil company Eni, again “to turn from a gas importer to exporter”. 
Six years ago, Egypt exported gas to Israel and Jordan through the East Mediterranean gas company EMG. However, the gas pipeline in Northern Sinai was the subject of several attacks by Islamist militants. In the end, Egypt canceled the deal on the supply of gas to Israel in 2012, due to the fact that the natural gas reserves of the country has actually been depleted and is subsequently redirected for domestic use. See also: The crisis in the EU: the Netherlands against all 
Later, in 2015, Egypt has frozen talks on a new gas deal with Israel, but after the international arbitration court in Geneva decided that the Egyptian energy companies have to compensate Israel Electric Corp and the aforementioned EMG $1.7 billion for cancelling the deal. 
Therefore, the new gas deal with Israel and all other related conditions actually turn Egypt in a very good and attractive location to place a regional gas hub. In addition, the supply of natural gas to the Arab Republic for its liquefaction and transport, but Israel is gradually connected to other regional players. 
Cyprus could become a major gas exporter 
The extraction of raw materials took up another country in the Mediterranean, known for its financial, corporate and tourism services. Last Thursday the Minister of energy of Cyprus Giorgos Lakkotripis announced that Nicosia very close to finalizing an agreement to sell natural gas to Egypt. 
Cyprus plans to deliver in the Arab Republic of Egypt resources from the Aphrodite field, which was opened by Noble Energy in 2011 and contains an estimated 127 billion cubic meters of natural gas. The gas supplied will be LNG plants at Idku and Damietta, located in 645 kilometers South of Cyprus, for further transport to the world market. “We can come to an agreement in the coming weeks,” said energy Minister George Lakkotripis in a telephone interview from Nicosia. 
Results mine Aphrodite owned us energy company Noble Energy and Royal Dutch Shell for 35% each, whereas Israeli Delek Drilling controls everything else. 
“The fact that Shell is administered by the Egyptian LNG plant in Idku, is favorable to this type of deal,” said Charles Ellinas, CEO of Cyprus energy consulting company e-CNHC, speaking about a potential gas deal between Cyprus and Egypt. 
Cyprus has natural gas reserves outside of Aphrodite. Total and Eni in 2017 discovered so far, only small volumes in the field of Onesiphorus, confirming the existence of a carbonate platform similar to the Egyptian Sohram that Eni has called “the largest discovery in the Mediterranean”. Eni also announced another discovery: February 8, in the field of Calypso in block 6 of the EEZ of Cyprus was discovered additional column of gas. 
On Thursday, Cyprus and Egypt has signed a preliminary agreement to create a pipeline between the two countries. “To date, in waters of Cyprus is made a lot of exploration, and it seems that there will be a lot more gas fields — also notes the analyst global consulting company Wood Mackenzie Stephen Fullerton. — And any subsequent discoveries, in turn, will look for the path on the world market, and Egypt is a potential option.” 
Meanwhile, the Turkey looked disapprovingly 
Egyptian-Cypriot rapprochement was met with great opposition from Turkey. And Ankara is not the first time opposed to the Egyptian-Cypriot cooperation. In 2013, Turkey has refused to recognize the agreement on the demarcation of the Maritime boundary, signed between Greek Cyprus and Egypt, calling it a violation of “the sovereign rights of Turkey and Turkish Cypriots”. 
In addition, Ankara continues to block exploration works conducted by the Italian company Eni in the exclusive economic zone of Cyprus. 
Back in December off the southern coast of Cyprus, sailed the ship, which Italy’s Eni and France’s Total leased for gas exploration to the West of the Cypriot field Aphrodite. And on the 9th of Feb Turkish warships blocked the ship’s Eni, not allowing him to continue intelligence work in Cuttlefish, field in block 3 of the EEZ of Cyprus, arguing that such activity is unacceptable in terms of physical division of the island. 
The Turkish leader Reggea Tayyip Erdogan and up to this point has repeatedly warned foreign companies from drilling on the continental shelf of Cyprus. 
“I don’t think Turkey is ready to go to an open confrontation, but I also think that it cannot be entirely excluded,” said Andrew Neff, an analyst at British research firm Markit IHS in an interview with the French news Agency France-Presse. “If at least one of the drilling rigs go too far in disputed waters, then I guess we will see how Turkey will be allowed in the course of “gunboat diplomacy” in defense of their interests”, — the expert added. 
Winners and losers 
According to preliminary estimates, the deal signed between Noble Energy, Delek Drilling and Dolphinus Ltd, will allow Egypt to earn about 2 billion dollars a year only for the liquefaction of natural gas. Provided that is an established infrastructure and built the necessary interchange, the projected profit of Cairo can be increased by another order of magnitude. 
However, many experts now believe that the gas deal between Egypt and Israel inevitably will cause damage to Qatar and Turkey: the latter will be forced to import liquefied natural gas from Egypt, while Cairo and tel Aviv will lose some of their European market, despite the impressive presence of LNG facilities in Egypt. See also: Europe pointed to Erdogan on the door 
As a result, in the near future Turkey will have to buy liquefied natural gas from Egypt, as, indeed, possible, and Europe, due to lower production costs, the experts at the International Agency for renewable energy. 
Qatar is likely to lose about 70% of its European market, with the result that he will have to shift to the Latin American market. “The deal struck a heavy blow to Ankara and Doha,” — said the French journalist Christophe Ayad, specializing in the problems of the Middle East. 
“Turkey provokes Cyprus in all possible ways to keep the Cypriot authorities from drilling and development of gas fields. President Recep Tayyip Erdogan also wants to have control over the natural resources of the island, and the deal signed between Cairo and Nicosia, definitely made him worry about the future,” added Ayad. 
And yet Turkey is also not sitting still, silently watching in the middle East formed the “concert of new gas powers.” Ankara is actively promoting their interests on the Israeli front, there is making energy deals, including the gas pipeline project from Israel to Turkey and from there directly to Europe. 
“To separate business from politics” 
The prospect of a new major gas source close to Europe’s strategically attractive on the background of reduction of its reserves in the North sea and concern in the West about the dependence on Russian gas. However, the development of deposits in the Eastern Mediterranean complicate the political risks and competition between countries. 
“Use of reserves of gas can greatly change the political and economic climate in the region, says Emmanuel Karagiannis, expert, king’s College London. And at the same time it could exacerbate disputes over borders, lasting decades, if not create new conflicts”. 
In the region are still so many opposing interests that even the reasons to cooperate are often the “Apple of discord”. So, for example, already tensions between Israel and Lebanon has deteriorated further in 2009, when Noble Energy announced the discovery in the Mediterranean sea, the Tamar, and later, at the end of 2010, the Leviathan. In 2012 it was discovered the Deposit of Tannin, and now the total volume of proven gas estimated at about 800 billion cubic meters, of undiscovered — several trillion cubic meters. 
The gas production from fields in varying degrees, has already implemented Israel, despite the fact that the Maritime boundary between States to this day has not been demarcated: in fact, Israel, with the help of the United States, took control of the discovered natural resources in their hands. 
Beirut in this situation decided to do some threats to tel Aviv and just last week signed an agreement to develop two blocks on the continental shelf with a consortium of Eni and NOVATEK. The term of the agreement is 5-10 years. 
Prevents gas cooperation in the region and the unresolved Cyprus problem. At the moment, to export Israeli gas to Europe, plans to build a gas pipeline worth EUR 6 billion from Israel to Italy through Cyprus and Greece. In December last year, the four countries signed a preliminary agreement on the joint development project and want to complete it by 2025. The pipeline length of 2,000 km will have to go to a depth of 3 km. the Project will be one of the most complex and expensive in the history of the industry, and this is just one of the reasons why many experts are generally skeptical of its viability. 
In addition, the gas is not stored as oil and is pumped from the source to the pipe or liquefied. Independently of this, neither Israel nor Cyprus nor Greece can not do, and build the installation for LNG production — at present it’s too expensive, the newspaper “Ash-shark al-Ausat”. 
Of course, a cheaper option would be a pipeline through Turkey. But even if she and Israel will overcome their differences and the hostility of the latter with the Arab States automatically excludes the possibility of building a gas pipeline through the waters of Libya and Syria. And here is another alternative route passes near Cyprus. But Nicosia still tense relations with Ankara to support the Turkish part of the island. According to many international experts, this pipeline could be part of the solution of the Cyprus issue. 
Such conflicts are not new, and not to aggravate, it is necessary simply “to separate business from politics,” said the Egyptian energy expert Mohammed al-Sayed Badawi. However, while countries in the region, where in excess of not only gas, but also political hostility, just beginning to agree.  