20 March 2018, 20:23 Illarionov treats presidential election in Chechnya and KBR as totally falsified 
A mathematical assessment of the number of cases of ballot stuffing (throw-in) at the March 18 presidential election has shown the highest percentage of such cases in favour of Putin in the Kabardino-Balkarin Republic (KBR) and Chechnya, Andrei Illarionov, an economist, has noted, treating the political culture in these republics as totally falsified. 
On March 18, the voting took place at the presidential election in Russia . Observers reported numerous violations . 
Today, Mr Illarionov has published his post "10 million ballots thrown in and the typology of political cultures of Russian regions" in his blog in the "Live Journal". He made a review based on the mathematical analysis designed by Sergey Shpilkin, a physicist, a mathematician and an election researcher. 
According to Sergey Shpilkin, a total of 9,947,000 ballots were thrown in (not by voters) all over Russia and abroad. 
Ingushetia is among the regions, where the throw-in index at the March 18 presidential election is within 5-10%, Andrei Illarionov has stated. According to his story, the political culture in the regions with such index "can be treated as relatively fair." In North Ossetia, Rostov, Volgograd and Astrakhan Regions, the index was within 10-20%, and, according to Illarionov, the political culture of these regions can be defined as moderately corrupt. 
He has assessed the political culture of the Stavropol and Krasnodar Territories, in Adygea and Kalmykia, where the throw-in index was 20-50%, as highly corrupted, while in Karachay-Cherkessia and Dagestan the index was 50-65%; Mr Illarionov suggests treating the political culture in these regions as completely corrupt. 
The throw-in index of 65-85% was fixed only in two Russian regions – the KBR and Chechnya, as well as in "the territories outside of Russia," that is, at polling stations set up in Russian diplomatic missions abroad. Andrei Illarionov has treated such political culture as "totally falsifying, having nothing in common with reflection of the reality." 
  
Volgograd Communists condemn falsification of election results , Muslims' belief in "sacred nature" of power boosted turnout at elections in Dagestan , Ballot stuffing and compulsory voting reported in Ingushetia . bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; Adygeia; Astrakhan region; Ingushetia; Kabardino-Balkaria; Kalmykia; Karachaevo-Cherkesia; North Ossetia - Alania; Volgograd region; Dagestan; Russia; Chechnya; Krasnodar region; North-Caucasian Federal District; Stavropol region; Rostov region; South Federal District  