Facebook denies data breach after whistleblower report on elections data  15 CET | News 
Facebook has denied claims of a major breach of its users' data, while suspending the companies that allegedly made use of 50 million Facebook profiles to influence the last US elections. US and UK politicians have called for the company to answer about how it could allow its data to be used in such a way. 
Facebook said in a statement that the data was requested by Aleksandr Kogan from users who chose to sign up to his app, and "everyone involved gave their consent". Kogan was an academic at Cambridge University who worked with the company Cambridge Analytica to develop tools for analysing data on Facebook users. 
Both Kogan and Cambridge Analytica, along with the whistleblower Chris Wylie, were suspended from Facebook after Wylie revealed to the UK's Observer and the New York Times how data on Facebook users, mainly US voters, was harvested by Cambridge Analytica without users' consent. The analysed data was allegedly sold on to political campaigns to assist in voter targeting. 
Cambridge Analytica has denied the claims, saying it only uses publicly available data. The company claims it deleted all data received from Kogan and his company Global Science Research. 
Facebook confirmed that it suspended Kogan's app in 2015, after the company violated Facebook policies by passing user data to Cambridge Analytica. Kogan's 'thisisyourdigitallife' app, which was marked on the social network as a research app for psychologists, collected data on Facebook users' 'likes' in an effort to help predict their other interests. 
After the Facebook app removal, Kogan told the company that all the data was deleted. However, Facebook said it's more recently learned that not all the data was deleted. The company is still investigating the matter and said it will take legal action if necessary to protect its users' information. Facebook added that it has since tightened its policies about such research apps on the social network and disclosure over the information they collect.  