New UAE blockhain “token” buys you stake in lucrative property investments March 21, 2018 8:51 am 
UAE-based Evarei Management announced that after completion of a successful pre-ITO (Initial Token Offering) phase, it launched the first Evareium token sale this week. 
This major phase in Evareium’s business evolution means individual investors now have the chance to own a beneficial stake in lucrative property investments Evareium intends to undertake by owning the Evareium token – a pioneering and award-winning* investment model founded on blockchain technology. 
Evarei” recently announced it has secured the rights to acquire its first $20 Million real estate portfolio in Dubai. 
The portfolio comprises complete buildings totaling almost 700 apartments across two new up-and-coming master communities in Dubai involving exclusively asset-managed units. 
These fully leased, high-quality residential serviced apartment buildings involve a range of leased, asset-managed and owned spaces. Related: Got $1000? Unique Dubai-based crytpo lets you buy property easy 
Purpose of token 
Evareium has been launched to pioneer crowdfunding and management of direct investments in real estate, starting in Dubai and the GCC region before evolving globally. 
Evareium provides the means for investors can relinquish the burden of having to physically buy, sell and manage property themselves but get the opportunity to passively avail compelling, asset-backed investment returns. 
Stefan Hickmott, Evarei CEO and Director of EVM Blockchain Limited said, “Evareium is based on proven models which consistently outperform regular property ownership – it’s a completely managed investment platform for the ‘click-in-and-click-out’ digitalized investment generation, targeting the largest asset class in the world at $220 trillion in value and over $10 trillion in economic contribution globally per year. Evareium’s global vision is a complete ecosystem digitalizing real estate investment and operations. With boundless potential, there’s no bigger blockchain playbook than this.” 
Hickmott added, “Our vision with Evareium has been to activate digitally this inherently illiquid asset class by creating a completely digitalized ecosystem model defining a unique coalescence between technology and physical property utilization and experience – which will soon become a new paradigm.” Read: 3 trends driving Dubai properties in 2018: Also to buy or not to buy! 
The minds behind 
Like Tim Berners-Lee creating the World Wide Web, or Apple creating the App Store, with Evareium the team has created a complete playbook for digitalizing the real estate asset class and the operations they host. 
And Evareium’s 3-token strategy is the digital tapestry upon which this rapid digitalization of property investment holding and utility can play out. 
Hickmott added “We have assembled a core team of world-leading ICO and blockchain professionals including Alex Norta of QTUM and Cedex fame and Block Gemini Technologies, crypto asset and real estate entrepreneur, Phillip Nunn, and Paul Moynan co-founder of the highly successful Dragon Coin Initial Coin Offering.” 
Having already been backed by private founding investors based on earlier capital raising rounds, the project has reached baseline critical mass and is now embarking on its full public launch to raise requisite funds and acquire assets. 
The Evareium ITO is currently live, with a final EVM ITO phase scheduled to commence after the current phase. Along with the issuance of EVM tokens to investors, EVM purchasers avail free credits for a follow-on issuance of the Evareium Utility Token (“EVT”), as a significant bonus feature for subscribers. The minimum contribution is 0.1 BTC or 1.0 ETH. 
About the founders 
Evarei is a real estate asset and management advisory firm based in the UAE. 
The term Evareium pertains to a Cayman Islands limited partnership fund which is to be the entity pursuing the Evareium fund offering. 
Evarei advises EVM Blockchain Limited on matters relating to the establishment of the Evareium real estate initiative and evaluates assets and projects suitable for Evareium. 
Stefan Hickmott has been living in Dubai and the GCC region since 2001 and has an extensive experience in real estate acquisition, advisory and private equity, having previously been vice president of The Abraaj Group and an instrumental executive at the firm that has now become Jones Lang LaSalle MENA. Previous Story