Unions to meet Melrose today Coming up: G20 finance ministers meet 9.06am GMT 
Over in the City, investors have been distracted from the GKN-Melrose battle by a truly grim announcement from tech firm Micro Focus. 
Micro Focus, a FTSE 100-listed software provider, warned that revenues will fall by between 6% and 9% this year, which will eat into profits. Micro Focus having a bad start to the week. Shares down 42% after CEO steps down and company warns of revenue decline. pic.twitter.com/AHAKCqi7o8 8.47am GMT 
The unions who represent GKN employees across the UK will demand answers from Melrose over its plans for the company, when they meet today. 
Many GKN workers fear for their future, as Melrose’s business model is to buy companies, make them more profitable, and then sell them again. 
“Melrose’s bosses have been far from clear about the detail of their true intentions for GKN beyond vague platitudes and soundbites. 
“Question marks remain around the levels of debt Melrose will pile on the company and what it means for jobs, long-term investment and product development. 
“GKN’s highly skilled UK workforce fear they will end up being sold off piecemeal, with their jobs either axed or shipped overseas to fund a debt-fuelled pay day if Melrose gets its way. That concern over Melrose’s short-termism extends to major GKN customers such as Airbus too, which relies on a long-term relationship with GKN to develop the wings of the future. 
“If Airbus or other major customers take their business elsewhere it would blow a hole in revenues and destroy jobs and innovation. 8.43am GMT 
In another development, Melrose has lowered the ‘Acceptance Condition’ of its GKN offer, from 90% to 50% plus one share. 
That means it has lowered the bar to a successful takeover. 8.34am GMT 
GKN has hit back against Melrose’s takeover bid. 
“Since announcing the deal to bring GKN Driveline and Dana together, I have had the opportunity to speak to many of our shareholders and explain why I am so excited about this prospect. 
“The complementary nature of the two businesses and our shared commitment to R&D and long term investment creates a fantastic opportunity to build a world leading company and create meaningful shareholder value by delivering $235 million in synergies. 8.15am GMT 
Good morning, and welcome to our rolling coverage of the world economy, the financial markets, the eurozone and business. 
The battle to take control of one of Britain’s oldest engineering firms is hotting up today. 
“GKN has been run by people who don’t have an owner mentality, they have a manager mentality. 
“It’s a business that has slowly but surely lost the support of the UK institutional investment community.” 
The proposal we have made to the trustees of up to £1 billion of contributions under our ownership is a clear example of what Melrose does which is good for pensioners and shareholders alike and shows we are a good custodian for all stakeholders. 
Melrose’s measured approach represents certainty of strategy, value and management. We strongly urge GKN shareholders to accept our offer without delay.”