March 21, 2018 Food: Foundation Coffee is to Open a Second Site in Manchester 
This isn’t the first time on the blog I’ve got excited about Manchester’s Foundation Coffee House. In fact, I’ve featured it a fair few times, and on my social media. 
Probably because this Northern Quarter coffee hangout is so damn instagram-able! You can see one of my blog posts here . 
There has been copious amounts of new openings around Manchester city centre recently. But I recently reported on this new one for Foundation Coffee House in Manchester over at Lovin Manchester , and I desperately wanted to share it here, too. The popular Northern Quarter coffee and cake hangout has been loved for it’s Almond Milk Matcha Lattes and incredibly stylish working space since it opened in 2015. Especially by me, who often stops by for a porridge and a Matcha Latte, always made with Almond Milk. 
The coffee barristers are always so polite, and create the prettiest latte art every single time. 
Owned and operated by local design firm NoChintz, the second site will open in the newly refurbished Whitworth Locke aparthotel (formerly Atrium) following the success of the Grade II-listed Sevendale House venture. 
The new space will set itself away from the quirky Northern Quarter, situating itself on the outskirts of Canal Street and China Town. 
And it looks like the second opening is giving FOUNDATION a chance to spread their wings and be a little experimental, too. The stylish coffee haunt is rumoured to be dipping their toe into offering cocktails, craft beers, a retail section, events (like yoga classes) and even film nights. 
But of course, coffee will still be at the heart of the venture, followed closely by food. FOUNDATION is far too popular for it’s incredible coffees, latte art and stack-able pancakes to change this priority. 
With big plans to open around ten Foundation sites across Greater Manchester over the next few years, we look forward to seeing Whitworth Locke launch the second one… Follow: