Press Release 21 March 2018 AccorHotels Take Off! 2018: What is the mobile hotel of your dreams? 
For the past 6 years, students from all over the world have been invited to take part in a challenge which calls for both innovation and creativity. This year 300 teams will be asked to design the mobile hotel of your dreams. Inscriptions are now open! 
Take Off! is the worldwide student competition organized by AccorHotels . Since 2012, 6 editions have been successfully launched. Through their participation in the contest future professionals are assessed by AccorHotels experts as well as teaching staff from graduate schools! #newwaysofhosting 
Within the Group we are always developing disruptive ideas which break with the traditional codes of hospitality. For example, the idea that it is up to guests to come and join our hotels can be looked at from a different angle. Maybe our stays should go to them! The mobile hotel is one of the ways that hospitality could evolve in the future. 
This disruptive idea forms the basis of the Take Off! challenge. Students must design the perfect mobile hotel which will move around to fit in with the needs of travellers. For what type of occasion? In 2 situations where the hotel must come to the travelers: Public events, such as festivals, trade fairs or cultural or sports events Private events, such as weddings, events for families or friends. 
This is a very promising market. By way of example, the festival market represented more than 2 billion dollars in 2017 but is expected to reach 3.5 billion dollars by 2020! Who is concerned? 
They are mainly local players who are not currently in a position to expand in the international market for logistical, marketing and organisational reasons. 
From the low-cost sector to the luxury sector, these players typically make use of different designs and experiences to meet the needs and expectations of their customers, such as tents, windows, buses, removable containers, small boxes, bubble, etc. A selection process in 3 stages 
As you can see, this is not an easy contest! The participants have to get through 2 heats before reaching the final round to be held before COMEX members in Paris on June 20th. 
The first stage will finish on April 20 th and by April 6 th the participants must make a collage photo with a title and a text comprising a maximum of 500 characters! Out of the 100 3-person teams, only15 will be chosen to go forward to the second heat. 
In the 2nd stage, the remaining teams will be asked to prepare a video lasting 1'30 minutes and present the pop-up hotel concept during a conference call. 
The 5 teams who get through to the final will be invited to come to Paris to take part in a mystery test. 
Participate in the challenge! ABOUT ACCORHOTELS 
AccorHotels is a world-leading travel & lifestyle group and digital innovator offering unique experiences in more than 4,000 hotels, resorts and residences, as well as in over 2,500 of the finest private homes around the globe. Benefiting from dual expertise as an investor and operator through its HotelServices and HotelInvest divisions, AccorHotels operates in 95 countries. Its portfolio comprises internationally acclaimed luxury brands including Raffles, Fairmont, Sofitel Legend, SO Sofitel, Sofitel, onefinestay, MGallery by Sofitel, Pullman and Swissôtel; as well as the popular midscale and boutique brands of Novotel, Mercure, Mama Shelter and Adagio; the in-demand economy brands including ibis, ibis Styles, ibis budget and the regional brands Grand Mercure, The Sebel and hotelF1. With an unmatched collection of brands and a rich history spanning close to five decades, AccorHotels, along with its global team of more than 240,000 dedicated women and men, has a purposeful and heartfelt mission: to make every guest Feel Welcome. Guests enjoy access to one of the world's most rewarding hotel loyalty programs – Le Club AccorHotels. AccorHotels is active in its local communities and committed to sustainable development and solidarity through PLANET 21, a comprehensive program that brings together employees, guests and partners to drive sustainable growth. Accor SA is publicly listed with shares trading on the Euronext Paris exchange (ISIN code: FR0000120404) and the OTC marketplace (Code: ACRFY) in the United States.