Home / Society / Which means the death of the pilot Voloshin, possibly shot down Boeing MH17? Which means the death of the pilot Voloshin, possibly shot down Boeing MH17? 13 hours ago Society 1 Views 
Yesterday’s idols Ukrainian patriots began a few years later, outcasts. 
In Nikolaev killed himselfa former military pilot “anti-terrorist operation”, Vladislav Voloshin, who worked here as acting Director of the local airport. 
He shot himself at home from his service pistol, and this news has received the big public resonance, not only because the deceased was suspected of involvement in the crash of the Malaysian airliner MH-17, and due to the fact that he was considered one of the iconic heroes of anti-terrorist operation. Voloshin, who was made in 2014 thirty-three sorties, was awarded the order “For courage”, and his portrait adorns the building of the presidential administration of Ukraine in the gallery the most famous soldiers of the volunteers. So it can be considered one of the seminal figures in the ongoing war. 
However, Vladislav Voloshin did not find a place in the country for which he fought. Six months before the suicide pilot retired from the Armed forces of Ukraine — and did not hesitate to slam the door, describing a crisis situation in the army. 
“Pilots of military aircraft have a very low salary, which does not allow to provide normal own family”, — said the officer. 
He severely criticized the army leadership, speaking about the situation in the APU at the military unit, where the pilots had to sit on the ground or fly in sneakers and boots-ankle boots, without proper, systematic training, with a deficit of aviation fuel. Every time created threat to the lives of students. 
Once on the citizen, Voloshin did not remain without work — in contrast to the great mass of demobilized soldiers APU, he was assigned to be a warm and lucrative acting Director of the Nikolaev airport. Yes, of course, from Nikolaev there was virtually no passenger flights — and most other regional centers of the country. However, the endless work on the reconstruction and development of local “latavia” opened a wide scope for a variety of operations, which tried to engage a former officer. 
“Two months ago the Nikolaev journalist Andrey lokhmatov made resonance investigation of how the environment of the head Nikolaev yeah, the representative of Petro Poroshenko Bloc, Alexei Savchenko organized tender fraud in the repair of the airport. Moreover, Andrew was able to obtain and publish important audio recording. It is audible as the environment Savchenko openly declines Voloshin, as head of the airport, agree on the bogus results of the tender for the renovation of the building,” — writes about this in his blog the journalist Dmitry gnap. See also: The real "Apocalypse", which managed to survive humanity. Photo 
More than that — the Deputy Director of the Nikolaev airport Alina Korotich has already acknowledged that officials Nikolaev yeah Voloshin was forced to sign illegal documents. And today was published correspondence with the participation of Vladislav Voloshin, who complains unknown person on pressure Savchenko, realizing that he was forced to participate in criminal sham tenders. And explicitly says that it is visited by suicidal thoughts. 
Of course, we don’t know what broke the military officer, the father of two small children, forcing him to kill himself. He must have seen in the Internet videos with the bodies of civilians, which is milled in the Donbass shots of the su-25. And, most of all, ask yourself was it worth to kill these people in order to officials from the Ministry of defense robbed the army, and a new honest government that sent him to fight, to create corruption to such an extent that not even dreamed of it escaped “paperednik”. And did this disappointing conclusion. 
Anyway, one thing is clear — the hero of the ATO Voloshin did not fit into the reality postmedieval Ukraine. And it is something unites his fate with the biography of Nadiya Savchenko, which is going to settle now in the Ukrainian prison. She, too, has gone from kissing the representatives of the Ukrainian authorities to the strict conflict with senior army officials — calling for revolt against the Ukrainian version of “crooks and thieves”. 
Another representative of the same cohort is Mikhail Saakashvili — the man, the arc received from the hands of Poroshenko Ukrainian citizenship, along with enormous powers and the Governor’s post, in just two years has become deported from the country “enemy of the state”. 
And even Yulia Tymoshenko, who tried to raise a hand with a wheelchair after his release in 2014, has now become the target of accusing it of “zrade” porkopolis, whose name now adorns the site “Peacemaker” together with Hope Savchenko and former Georgian President. See also: Life in the "LC": unemployment and crime 
A lot of idols, which was raised after the victory of Euromaidan, crashed and was demolished yesterday fans and colleagues. And this has created in society a real vacuum positive characters. To the extent that, according to data released today by the Kiev international Institute of sociology, almost 40% of Ukrainians do not know for whom to vote in the upcoming elections. 
37% of respondents have not decided for whom to vote in a new Parliament, a 38.3% don’t know whom to support as President. And 16.7% did not participate in the vote. 
And no wonder — after all, the opposition cleaned or put down, and yesterday’s heroes are declared traitors and agents of the Kremlin. 
“After a history of Savchenko, in fantasy Lutsenko blowing up the dome of Rada and to seek survivors from a vending machine, a pertinent question: in the TV series called “Ukrainian policy” generally is the hero? The laws of the genre it should be… Around very often traitors and Russian agents. “Peacemaker” is swollen from the names of heroes and Tymoshenko, Saakashvili, Savchenko, Ruban. Yesterday’s stars quickly fade — in the sky does not remain a single lumen. So maybe not heroes matter, and in the series? 
If the government raised the Maidan, the war raging in the country hatred — entirely bad, maybe it is time for major revision. The circumstances of the beginning of the war, loss of territories and, finally, what happened in the 20 February 2014 on the Maidan. Constantly, second by second, frame by frame. And when the “Holy square” will not be as Holy, when Holy war with Russia will podocytic its sanctity, the veil will fall and there will be sobering,” wrote about it on my blog Gleb Simpletons. 
Remains to agree with this — because if you created the Maidan reality devours its heroes, it means that it devours itself. 
 