Renald A. Frank March 19, 2018 
Coimbatore: It has been nearly 14 years since the dreaded Veerappan was killed in the Operation Cocoon. A Sub-Inspector who had a face-to-face with the bandit recounts to The Covai Post the chilling action way back in 1996. 
Veerappan was built slim, had a terrifying `kattabomman’ moustache that could scare all. The aura he possessed had made him defy the police and government for more than a decade. And yet this sandalwood smuggler earned the sympathy of many, said SI Mohan Nawas. 
He was a man of very few words and spoke through his actions of killing and smuggling. The most wanted bandit of the country was shot during Operation Cocoon in 2004 at the hands of the then Tamil Nadu Special Task Force Chief K. Vijayakumar near Dharmapuri. 
Preparations had started long before when forces in 1996 had an encounter with Veerappan and his gang near the mountain road of Dhimbam-Germalam, said officials. Veerappan had kept his men posted there for six days before carrying out the attack on then Superintendent of Police Tamizhselvan and his team. 
On February 10, 1996, Veerappan was trying to reunite his gang on the western side of Dhimbam mountain. A tribal Thuppaki Chittan and his wife were inducted into the gang which helpedin bringing more of these tribespeople into Veerappan’s group. With quite sufficient manpower Veerappan was now in a position to plan his attacks. 
One night, he decided to attack the camp of STF team where Nawaz used to stay. But as he said, the barking of the dogs put him on alert. Sensing danger, other police personnel woke up and were fully armed. But they could see nothing as it was pitch dark. The dogs ran towards the tree and Veerappan who was hiding behind it decided to abort the risky attack and escaped into the forest with his men. 
Veerappan was hell bent on capturing Nawaz because he believed that he was responsible for most of his problems. It was after this incident that Veerappan chose the upward mountain direction of Dhimbam-Germalam as an assault point, target general public. 
On most days, Nawaz used to sit beside the driver, but remembers that on that particular day his seat was occupied by then SP Tamizhselvan. The team included head constable Selvaraj, constable Raghupathi and sub-inspector Loyola Ignatius, beside himself. Nawaz who had crossed the stretch on earlier occasions always had an instinct that something was not right. All along the way Tamizhselvan and Nawaz were talking casually. When the jeep was moving along the gradient, they heard the sound of up on the climbing upwards there was some sound in the engine and Nawaz did not hear what Tamizhselvan was telling him. At this point, he exchanged seats with constable Selvaraj who was sitting behind Tamizhselvan. Suddenly, there was a flurry of bullets from the mountain and Selvaraj was killed on the spot. Driver Illangovan, with his sheer presence of mind, moved the vehicle to a corner to use it as a shield from the flying bullets. 
The situation was very tense when a bullet suddenly hit Loyola Ignatius on his head. He fell unconscious. The bullet got stuck at a point from where it could not be removed and Ignatius continues to live with it. Tamizhselvan in spite of having an injured left hand rolled under the jeep and started firing from his AK-47 rifle along with Raghupathy. Nawaz, who was injured badly on the left side of his nose, head and left shoulder, saw the gang running downwards and tried to chase them. He fell and hit a rock. His AK-47 rifle fell and with great difficulty he managed to pick it up and when he looked up, it was face-to-face with Veerappan and his men. While Veerappan lifted his country pistol and SLR, an angry Nawaz made a loud shout and started shooting though he could not hold his gun properly because of the injury and there was only sweat and blood on his face. 
After this 1996 incident, Nawaz told Vijaya Kumar that the stray dogs were his best security. “I regret not having them along with me when Veerappan and his men attacked us way back in 1996. These dogs protected me,” he said. ALSO READ