Boulevard Hotéis launches new hotel websites, grows online bookings almost 40% with SiteMinder Boulevard Park in Belo Horizonte, Brazil 
Online bookings are on the up for a hotel group located in one of Brazil's largest cities, only months after launching new hotel websites powered by the global hotel industry's leading cloud platform, SiteMinder . Boulevard Hotéis, which caters for both leisure and corporate travelers in the stunning metropolis of Belo Horizonte, Brazil, reports online bookings have grown 38 percent and the group is showcasing the best it has to offer for the first time. 
Boulevard Hotéis has three properties – Boulevard Park, Boulevard Plaza and Boulevard Express – which employ SiteMinder's integrated direct booking solutions to attract and convert guests on each of their hotel websites. 
"We knew launching new websites would be an important step to enhance the image of our hotel brand, but we weren't sure what the results would be. However, the numbers speak for themselves. In addition to having beautiful websites that we, ourselves, created – and, now, also maintain ourselves – our guests enjoy a simple, elegant and personal booking experience. The direct bookings are so valuable, because of course they don't come with commissions or transactional costs, and we are able to own the guest relationship throughout the entire process," says Boulevard Hotéis' general manager, Flavio Lemos. 
Boulevard Hotéis offers more than 200 rooms and 14 event spaces which are enjoying greater visibility online, thanks to the search engine optimization (SEO) capability built into SiteMinder's hotel website creator . The group is one of several deals won by SiteMinder in Latin America, where its smart and simple solutions are supporting hotel businesses across the region to compete for guests internationally. 
"Travelers today have so many options. They can book their preferred accommodation through an online travel agency, a travel agent, a hotel's direct website – the list is endless – or choose another hotel entirely. It comes down, largely, to the experience hotels are able to offer and therein lies the importance of having an attractive and high-performing website. We are delighted to support hotels such as Boulevard Hotéis to showcase all they have to offer, to travelers the world over, and to provide those travelers the ability to book a room without ever leaving the hotel website," says Mateus Coelho, Regional Manager of Brazil, Spain and Portugal at SiteMinder. About SiteMinder 
As the leading cloud platform for hotels, SiteMinder allows hotels to attract, reach and convert guests across the globe. We serve hotels of all sizes with award-winning solutions for independents and groups alike, wherever they are in the world. 
SiteMinder's products include The Channel Manager , the industry's leading online distribution platform; TheBookingButton , a wholly-branded booking engine for direct bookings via the web, mobile or social; Canvas , the intelligent website creator for independent hoteliers; Prophet , the real-time market intelligence solution that takes the guesswork out of pricing rooms; and GDS by SiteMinder , a single-point of entry to a six-figure network of travel agents and the world's major global distribution systems. With more than 28,000 hotel customers and 550 of the industry's top connectivity providers as our partners, today we have presence in more than 160 countries on six continents. 
For more information, visit www.siteminder.com . About Boulevard Hotéis 
Offering more than 200 attractive rooms and 14 event spaces, Boulevard Hotéis properties are designed to meet the most diverse needs and to make every trip and event a success. All rooms are equipped with free Wifi, air conditioning, a mini-bar, DDR telephone and cable TV, and come with breakfast. 
For more information, visit www.boulevardhoteis.com.br .