By John Legg Mar 21, 2018 Felder helps door manufacturer develop its business Home / Projects / Articles / 2018 / March 
Shaker2go specialises in handmade Shaker doors with each order made to individual specifications. As the business has expanded, it needed to upgrade its technical capability in an affordable and efficient manner. 
Having come from a background in cabinetry for kitchen and bedrooms Shaker2go found itself leaning more towards the Shaker style door than any other style and eventually decided to start producing Shaker products that would be available to order online for developers and tradesmen. 
Having started in a small workshop and building the business up with just a small rail saw, managing director Phil Temple reinvested the profits he was making into better machinery to grow the business. 
Typical Shaker2go doors 
At the start of 2016, the company was ready to upgrade its extraction and began to search the market. Phil comments: “My first introduction to Felder was when we were looking for an extractor, we needed something professional and portable – we purchased the AF 22 mobile dust extraction unit. 
“We then met the team from Felder to see what else they could do for us – what we needed was something that could create a straight line cut without any issues.” 
Shaker2go went on to purchase a Kappa 550 e-motion sliding table saw from Felder’s Format-4 range. 
Talking about his machine, Phil says: “It has an automated rip fence, extra-long sliding table, it’s got a lot of programmable functionality and it’s CNC equipped so that in the future when we want to expand and do more complicated components, the machine is ready for us.” 
He went on to say: “We do a lot of rips for our doors and make a lot of components. What this panel saw has enabled us to do is be much quicker by being able to adjust and run different cutting lists for each job, door style and size at the push of a button. 
“We were looking for a company we could expand with and Felder have their customer service based in the UK, giving us instant access to their services. The great thing is the availability for contact – if we have ever had any issues they have been dealt with immediately. We have had a lot of advice and that is what we wanted. In the future, when we expand we already know where we are going to go!” 
01908 635000