21 March 2018, 08:38 Weapons found at place of shootout in Chechnya 
Law enforcers discovered weapons and ammunition at the place of a special operation conducted in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya, where four men were killed. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that in the evening on March 20, in the Achkhoi-Martan District, in a forest near the border with Ingushetia, law enforcers killed four armed men during a special operation . 
Today, a press officer for the North-Caucasian District of the National Guard of Russia, has reported that at the place of the shootout, the law enforcers found weapons and ammunition. 
"Small arms and ammunition have been found at the place of the armed clash. No fighters from the National Guard or law enforcers suffered," reported press officer for the North-Caucasian District of the National Guard of Russia as quoted by the TASS . 
The press officer has also specified that the shootout took place near the village of Bamut, where the cordoned off armed people "rendered armed resistance to law enforcers," the TASS reports. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: All news; Conflicts; Chechnya; North-Caucasian Federal District All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY