20 March 2018, 21:06 Journalist and cameraman beaten up in Tbilisi 
Nino Lorkhoshvili, a female journalist, and a cameraman of the "Objective" TV Company were attacked and received traumas in the office of one of Tbilisi construction companies after they asked to show a construction permit. 
They were attacked when filming a report about the construction in Tsudberidze Street in Tbilisi, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent reports. 
According to Ms Lorkhoshvili, she came with a microphone into the office of the construction company to ask about their construction permit. The appearance of the filming team caused an aggressive reaction among the people in the office, one of them, who is close to the company's management began insulting them. 
"We tried to leave, but several men attacked us; they punched my head and smashed by the cameraman's face," Nino Lorkhoshvili said. 
Ana Kiknadze, the head of the news service of the "Objective" TV Company, has noted that this is not the first attack on journalists. According to her story, now, law enforcement bodies are investigating the attack. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Galina Gotua ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Incidents; Society; Georgia; South Caucasus All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY