21 March 2018, 09:36 Azerbaijan claims machine-gun attacks from Armenian side 
During a day, the Armenian armed forces 101 times violated the ceasefire in the Karabakh conflict zone and used large-calibre machine guns, the Azerbaijani Ministry of Defence (MoD) reports today. 
The shelling was conducted from the positions located in the territory of Armenia and "near the occupied villages," on the positions of the Azerbaijani army in the villages of Kemerli, Gaimagly, Ferekhli, Gushchu Airym, Ashagy Asquipara, Mezem, Gyzylgadjyly and Zamanly, reports the Azerbaijani MoD on its website. 
Till present, the Ministries of Defence for Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh have not yet commented on their websites on the Azerbaijani MoD's statement. 
Let us remind you that in April 2016, after the aggravation of the Karabakh conflict, the parties to the conflict announced a truce. However, the shelling in the conflict zone has not stopped since then. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: All news; Conflicts; Azerbaijan; Nagorny Karabakh; Armenia; South Caucasus All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY