Dennis Hogan dismisses trash-talk from junk-food eating Jimmy Kelly By irishboxing | on March 21, 2018 | Headline News 
Jimmy Kelly is talking himself for a big fall claims Denis Hogan. 
The Kildare fighter and the former World title challenger meet in Brisbane on April 7th in a WBO light middleweight World title eliminator and the ‘Hurricane’ is adamant he can’t be beaten by the Manchester man of Carlow and Kilkenny descent. 
The Australia-based ticket-selling Lilywhite says he doesn’t understand Kelly’s confidence stressing having studied the 25-year-old he see’s no chance of an away victory. 
Hogan [26(7)-1(0)-1] also stresses he has the perfect game plan for a fighter he feels has talked too much. Widgets Magazine 
“We have a phenomenal game plan for Jimmy Kelly we definitely know every movement he makes and I can capitalize on,” Hogan told T2T Boxing. 
“Most of it is funny,” he continued with regard to Kelly’s pre-fight talk. 
“I have had a bit of a laugh about it. I don’t see where he is coming from. I can’t see any way he can win this fight. He is ranked below me everywhere. He does a lot of talking and if that is what gets him these big fights good luck to him.” 
Throughout his career, Hogan has been the antithesis of the smack talking fighter. Indeed, he was genuinely baffled by Anthony Fitzgerald’s attempts to goad him in years gone by, seemingly unaware ‘Fitzy’ knew how to build a fight and ensure a pay-day. 
However, in this case, he seems to have taken exception to some jibes from Kelly [23(9)-1(1)] and, although delivered in almost polite manner, has hit back with some quips himself. In this instance telling his April foe to enjoy a bit of Brisbane sunshine because he won’t be basking in glory after they trade leather. 
“Keep talking, Jimmy, I am going to be winning this fight. April 7th I am going to be making a big statement. You and your team are lucky you can come to Australia for a bit of a holiday then get back to the drawing board.” 
He also warned a fighter – who Hogan points out posted pictures of himself enjoying fast food during camp – that he is doing everything he can in the gym to ensure he keeps his World title dreams alive. A post shared by Jimmy Kilrain Kelly ☘ (@jimmykelly100) on Mar 17, 2018 at 7:09am PDT 
“I can’t wait for April 7th. I am going to leave it all in the ring on the night.” 
“I was told Jimmy Kelly said that training camp is easy and he enjoys it. If that’s the case he isn’t working hard enough. I am really working hard and I will be getting a great win against Jimmy.” 
Victory over Kelly should ensure Hogan gets the chance to challenge the winner of Sadam Ali’s WBO light middleweight World title defence versus Liam Smith on May 12th in New York. 
The DDP Sports-promoted fighter claims he keeps changing his mind as to who will emerge with the belt from that scrap at Turning Stone in Verona, but claims the victor is ultimately irrelevant to him. 
“I have had different opinions on it as time goes by. Maybe Ali can shade it. Smith has more power, but I don’t Ali will stay there to get hit. Ali has power of his own so it’s hard to know exactly what way it will pan out I believe if the fight is in the States Ali wins on points.” 
“I don’t really mind, I did look at the Smith fight and think I’d prefer that, but I’ll take what I get. My vision is to be WOrld champion, I believe I will become World champion and whoever I have to beat to get there is fine.” 
Watch Dennis Hogan’s interview with T2T Boxing in full below: 
Kildare Boxing is proudly supported by Liffey Crane Hire Share this: