Performance 21 March 2018 ‘Brexit Effect’ Waning for UK Hotels 
Hotels in the UK recorded strong performance increases in 2017, although growth levels started receding in the final months of the year, according to data from STR . United Kingdom, 2017 vs. 2016 Occupancy: +0.5% to 77.4% ADR: +3.6% to GBP92.32 RevPAR: +4.1% to GBP71.49 
The UK's year-end performance figures were mainly the result of a record-breaking first half, as STR reported in August . Following the results of the June 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, the British pound was devalued considerably against the dollar and the euro. In the short term, this proved to be very positive for UK hoteliers, as the favorable exchange rate attracted an influx of international tourists, and provided a boost in domestic tourism as traveling to other countries became less affordable for UK residents. 
Performance figures for the final months of 2017 showed that the "Brexit effect" appears to be waning, as the pound continues to climb back in value. While occupancy levels decreased slightly for seven straight months to end the year, ADR (average daily rates) grew year over year in each month of 2017. 
London hotels posted a 4.1% increase in ADR for the year, with relatively flat occupancy that was heavily affected by strong, continued supply growth. The UK capital also showed resilience in the wake of multiple terror attacks in 2017, with minimal impact on hotel performance following each incident. About Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne (EHL) 
Ecole hôtelière de Lausanne (EHL) is an ambassador for traditional Swiss hospitality and has been a pioneer in hospitality education since 1893. It has created and inspired a unique professional community of over 25,000 hospitality managers, united by the values and the legacy of EHL. EHL is a leading university that provides learning solutions for enthusiastic, talented and ambitious students from 114 different countries. With undergraduate, graduate and certificate programs, EHL offers its students a range of on-campus and online education opportunities at different stages of their professional journey. EHL is regularly recognized as the best hotel management school in the world with the highest graduate employment rates in the industry. EHL is a member of EHL Holding SA, a Group dedicated to hospitality management education