Press Release 21 March 2018 Booking.com Reveals the Three Incredible Travel Stories That Won Its #BookingHero Competition Booking.com uncovers unforgettable travel experiences in Scotland, New York and Sri Lanka that highlight acts of extraordinary hospitality 
What do a dream wedding in New York, an adventure through the mountains of Sri Lanka and a family's search for their roots in Scotland all have in common? All saw a hospitality professional going out of their way to make or save someone's trip and today Booking.com, the global leader in connecting travelers with the widest choice of incredible places to stay, is sharing their stories with the world as the winners of its first-ever Booking Hero competition. 
Following thousands of submissions via social media, Booking.com has selected the three most touching and inspiring accounts of hospitality professionals going above and beyond to create unique and unforgettable travel experiences for their guests. The customers were then flown back to surprise their Heroes in person and to say thank you for making (and saving) their trips, with all the emotional reunions caught live on camera. 
A bride's dream is saved 
"These stunning stories are testament to the incredible dedication, commitment and passion that our partners put into creating truly memorable experiences for travelers day in and day out," said Pepijn Rijvers, CMO, Booking.com. "They beautifully demonstrate that an amazing trip is about more than simply finding the right destination or the perfect accommodation-it's also about the people you meet along the way which truly make for an unforgettable journey. And that's what travel is all about." 
To read the full release, please visit Booking.com's global media room . 
Contact Press Office Booking.comPhone: +31 (0)20 709 4743 
Established in 1996 in Amsterdam, Booking.com B.V. has grown from a small Dutch start-up to one of the largest travel e-commerce companies in the world. Part of The Priceline Group (NASDAQ: PCLN), Booking.com now employs more than 15,000 employees in 199 offices in 70 countries worldwide. 
With a mission to empower people to experience the world, Booking.com invests in digital technology that helps take the friction out of travel. At Booking.com, we connect travellers with the world"s largest selection of incredible places to stay, including everything from apartments, vacation homes, and family-run B&Bs to 5-star luxury resorts, tree houses and even igloos. The Booking.com website and mobile apps are available in over 40 languages, offer over 1.3 million properties, and cover more than 110,000 destinations in 225 countries and territories worldwide. 
Each day, more than 1.4 million room nights are reserved on our platform. So whether travelling for business or leisure, customers can instantly book their ideal accommodation quickly and easily with Booking.com, without booking fees and backed up by our promise to price match. Via our customer experience team, customers can reach Booking.com 24/7 for assistance and support in 43 languages, any time of the day or night. 
Follow us on Twitter and Instagram , like us on Facebook , and for the latest news, data and insights, please visit our global media room .