Cyfrowy Polsat invests in MVNO Premium Mobile Wednesday 21 March 2018 | 13:26 CET | News 
Cyfrowy Polsat has increased the share capital of MVNO Premium Mobile, operating on the network of mobile operator Polkomtel, which belongs to Cyfrowy Polsat, reported Telko.in. In February, the share capital of the MVNO was increased to PLN 36.8 million from 17.6 million . 
Cyfrowy Polsat is currently only a minority shareholder of Premium Mobile. The majority is held by another company associated with Zygmunt Solorz-Zak, but it is not part of the Cyfrowy Polsat group, as was confirmed by Tomasz Matwiejczuk from the group. The main reason for keeping Premium Mobile outside the structure of the group is the aim to keep the low-cost model of the operator. 
In February, the management board of Premium Mobile got a new member, Piotr Janik, who served in the management of the companies belonging to the Cyfrowy Polsat group, namely Aero2 and Sferia. Before joining the management board, Janik was a member of the supervisory board of Premium Mobile. At the same time, the management board of Premium Mobile dismissed Dariusz Chlastawa, one of the founders of Premium Mobile. 
Premium Mobile is an MVNO with an aggressive pricing strategy. Based on the latest information , it has 70,000 clients. The founders of Premium Mobile were managers and co-owners of mPunkt. Among the investors was later also a Hungarian businessman, Zoltan Varga . The company's starting capital was PLN 1.5 million. Based on the business registry's data, the amount has increased 8 times. 
MVNO operators have been heavily hit by the introduction of obligation to register pre-paid cards, as well as the new EU roaming regulations. Similarly, MVNO Virgin Mobile Poland decided to increase the company's share capital at the beginning of the year and signed an investment contract with its host operator P4, operating under the brand Play, which gained a purchase option on Virgin Mobile's shares. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.