Carl McDonald in a better place following the “worst performance of my life”   
Carl McDonald [2(0)-1(0)] is eager to put his disappointing derby defeat behind him with a big 2018. 
The Tallaght fighter claims his entertaining six-round chief support bout on with Bray’s Regan Buckley brought about his worst ever ring performance. 
The 28-year-old played his part in an all-Irish clash that captured the imagination, but was personally upset with his Celtic Clash 3 display and is now on a redemption mission. 
“It was probably the worst ever Carl McDonald, amateur or professional. I had so much stuff going on, outside of the ring, it got to the stage where it [the fight] was the last thing on my mind, I didn’t care,” admitted the Jobstown fighter. Widgets Magazine 
“That was my worst performance of my life, I was gone after about a minute and a half,” he added before explaining he is feeling much better after a much needed break. 
“After the last fight, I knew I needed to take time away, just to get the head right. I took a couple of months away from the gym, just forgot about boxing, enjoyed my Christmas, went on a holiday, me and the missus went to New York.” 
“I feel like a new man now, I feel great. I’ve got the head straight, I’m where I need to be.” 
It’s a case of a new year, new McDonald, and new outlook. The Eddie Hyland-trained super bantam is hoping to return to winning ways when he returns on the ‘Celtic Clash 5’ card this Saturday night at Good Counsel GAA in Drimnagh. 
McDonald retains big ambitions and outlined how “I’d jump back into a big fight tomorrow. I want to get this one out of the way, then I can push on for a title, an Irish title or something.” 
“Realistically, I think I can be up there at European level, that’s what I expect out of myself, I know I’m good enough when my head’s right, that’s the main thing, and it is at the moment.” 
“I’m 29 in the Summer, I’ve limited time left in this game. The sooner the better for me. I’d fight forever if I could but, obviously, your body doesn’t let you. Especially at the lighter weights, you tend to have to knock it on the head earlier.” 
– 
The ‘Celtic Clash 5’ card is headlined by a BUI Celtic super featherweight title fight which sees Stephen McAfee and Colin O’Donovan rematch. Featuring on the undercard alongside McDonald will be Ballybrack lightweight Niall O’Connor, Smithfield welterweight Keane McMahon, Blanchardstown cruiserweight debutant Chris Scuvie, Crumlin lightweight Martin Quinn, Lucan welter John Joyce, and Crumlin-based Cavan light middleweight debutant Owen Duffy. 
Tickets for the fight night are priced at €55 (ringside) and €35 (unreserved) and are available from the boxers involved. Carl McDonald can be contacted at 085 723 6164 or via the Boxing Ireland Promotions Facebook page. 
Photo Credit: Laszlo Geczo Photography Share this: