12 hours ago policy 3 Views 
Gaddafi retaliated 

AUTHOR: PETER AKOPOV 20.03.2018 
The arrest of the former President of France Nicolas Sarkozy is particularly significant against the backdrop of the just concluded Russian election. If the allegations against Sarkozy are correct, they expose the flagrant lawlessness occurring on the Western elections. The Russian political order was criticized by the representatives of the elite, for the sake of power are ready to bribe, murder and destruction of entire countries. 
Elections in Russia in the West consider democratic (unlike his). On top of that Russia also accused of meddling in American and European elections. In reality, however, we see that in two key countries of the Western world that are presidential republics, elections occur around large-scale fraud. 
We will not understand the details of the last American election. We only recall that the first for the nomination of Hillary Clinton and her victory over Bernie Sanders was involved in the entire power apparatus of the Democratic party. And then, after its defeat of Donald trump, President-elect and a half years arrange organized sabotage and obstruction. Look at France – the country that became the world’s first presidential Republic. 
Its former President is 63-year-old Sarkozy on Tuesday was taken into custody in the building of the judicial police of the city of Nanterre, one of the suburbs of Paris. He arrived for questioning in the case on financing the election campaign of 2007. Those elections he won and became the President of France, and the next, in 2012, lost. 
And now Sarkozy arrested. Yet for 48 hours, after which they will decide on the charges against him and subsequent arrest. And this time, unlike previous arrest nearly four years ago, the chance to get away from him significantly less. 
Yes, July 1, 2014 Sarkozy was detained, then his 15 hours of questioning on the case of abuse of office during his presidency. Suspected that he used his opportunities to obtain classified information about the investigation of the “case Betancourt” – history related to the illegal financing of his election campaign in 2007, the richest woman of France Lilian Betankur. Then Sarkozy was charged, but released. The case is then wrapped, and in September 2017 Betancourt died at the age of 94 years. See also: Golden Paracha...gun 
But now the main suspicion against Sarkozy relate to the other bribes. And although the man that gave the money to him, also already dead, evidence against the former President of rife . The question is whether the French justice to condemn former President of the country. 
We are talking about the money that Sarkozy had taken from Gaddafi and whom he then killed. It’s not medieval Chronicles, it is a reality of our time. Symbolically, the arrest of Sarkozy fell exactly on the 7th anniversary of the publication of the story of blood money. 
10 Mar 2011 Sarkozy recognized the so-called Libyan rebels and their Transitional national Council (created under the French government) as the sole legitimate representative of the Libyan people. 19 March began a military air campaign by Western countries against Libya. In the period between these two dates Muammar Gaddafi and his son Seif-ul-Islam said that Sarkozy received money from Libya for his election campaign. 
“Sarkozy is mentally retarded, said the Libyan leader. – He should be thankful to me that he became President of France. We gave him tools that helped him win the election”. 
Then Gaddafi’s son demanded Sarkozy to recognize the fact of receiving money from the Libyan government and, given its position in relation to the events in Libya, to return these funds. 
In respect of honesty Gaddafi, there is little doubt. Not only that alive, his son Seif ul-Islam, but that the transfer of money Sarkozy confirmed and other Libyan leaders, particularly former Prime Ministers Baghdadi al-Mahmoudi and Shukri Ghanem (later occupied the post of Minister of oil and in a strange way drowned in Vienna in the spring of 2012). 
And one of the mediators, the Lebanese billionaire Ziad Takieddin, two years ago, said that in 2006-2007, personally transported five million euros from Tripoli to Paris, where he gave them the right hand of Sarkozy, Claude Geana (after the elections the head of the Ministry of interior). About financing Sarkozy told and one of the confidants of Gaddafi Bachir Saleh. A former head of Libyan intelligence Abdullah senussi gave evidence on this subject to the International criminal court. 
Moreover, in may 2012, when Sarkozy lost the election, could not stand the President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko: See also: Putin received a "final" ultimatum from Obama on Syria 
“Not $ 50 million took Sarkozy and, according to Gaddafi, more than $ 100 million on his campaign. I personally told Gaddafi when he visited”. 
How Sarkozy thanked his creditor? 20 Oct 2011 planes of the French air force struck the convoy of Gaddafi. A wounded Libyan leader was in the hands of his enemies and was killed. The causal connection here is so obvious that only the blind can not see them. 
Yeah, next year, Sarkozy will lose the presidential election, though his victory was made all the possible and impossible. For example, eliminated his main rival – the head of the IMF Dominique Strauss-Kahn. May 14, 2011, two months after the beginning of the Libyan operation, Strauss-Kahn was arrested in new York, allegedly on suspicion of raping a maid at the hotel where he lived. The custom-made nature of the case Strauss-Kahn was not cause anybody any doubts. Soon he was released, but about any presidential nomination speech did not go. However, Sarkozy managed to lose even completely faceless Francois Hollande and left in the shade, lay on the bottom. He hoped that his bribes will forget. 
But now Sarkozy took over again – including through the “Gaddafi’s money”. Two months ago in London was arrested by his former assistant businessman Alexander Djouhri – soon, however, released on bail of a million pounds. 
That is, we are dealing with a unique situation – the former head of state, possessing nuclear weapons and which is one of the five permanent members of the UN Security Council, is accused of receiving bribes from a foreign state . And given subsequent events, it may reasonably be suspected in plotting the assassination of the man who gave him the money. The consequence of which was the destruction of the whole country, resulting, in turn, not only massive casualties in Libya itself, but also affected the refugee crisis, which was nearly swept Europe in the middle of the current decade. 
Just this alone is enough for the true spy novels and TV series. In other words, French elections 2007 and 2012 is a hell and trash that did not invent. But no – we will talk about the unfair elections in Russia and the murder of a British intelligence agent in London.  