Home / policy / Assistants advised Trump to congratulate Putin, but he did not listen to them Assistants advised Trump to congratulate Putin, but he did not listen to them 12 hours ago policy 2 Views 
Assistants of the President of the United States Donald trump’s national security team advised him not to congratulate the Russian leader Vladimir Putin on his victory in the last election. This was reported on Tuesday the newspaper The Washington Post, citing its sources in the White house. 
According to their information, the head of the Washington administration in particular has ignored one of the notes that is received during regular briefings, where capital letters was written: “Not to wish.” Trump announced his decision, also did not listen to the recommendations of the assistants to discuss with the Russian leader during the phone call, the case of poisoning ex-GRU officer Sergei Skripal in the UK 
However, some sources are unable to assert with confidence that the tramp read-made notes before the call. Assistants regularly provide the head of state these documents, which indicate the main topics for discussion with the leaders of other countries. 
According to The Washington Post, trump began with greetings, a telephone conversation with Putin. The United States intends to continue dialogue with Russia 
A number of legislators, including Republican Senator John McCain criticized President criticized for this call. Commenting on their statements, the press Secretary of the White house Sarah Sanders said Tuesday that the Washington administration will not listen to the opinions of those U.S. legislators who demand to stop dialogue with Russia. She also noted that the United States wants to continue the dialogue with Russia, but Washington will maintain its hard line against Moscow. See also: The hryvnia fell sharply on the news from Crimea 
In turn, the chief a press-services of the Department of state Heather Nauert told that greeting the American leader was part of the Protocol and the usual workflow. 
The American President himself said that congratulated Putin on his victory in the recent presidential election on March 18. The press service of the Kremlin reported that the conversation took place at the initiative of the American side. It was reported that the leaders discussed the development of cooperation between the two countries and topical international issues. The Kremlin said that “overall the conversation was constructive and was aimed at overcoming the problems that have accumulated in Russian-American relations.”  