TECH VIBES, ALL DAY, EVERYDAY Home Featured By 2019, the first bionic kidney will discard the need for dialysis By 2019, the first bionic kidney will discard the need for dialysis written by Milford Reardon March 20, 2018 Not always natural remedies are good for every health condition, no matter how good they are. Sometimes when the condition at kidney patients is serious, the only medical technology that can help is the dialysis. Without dialysis, patients may not survive, and what makes it even more difficult for those patients is the fact that there is always a long waiting list for transplantation. So far, there was no solution to this disease than getting a new kidney through transplantation. But now, with the advance of the medical technology, soon there will be new solutions. Scientists from the University of California, San Francisco have created the first bionic kidney that can replace damaged kidneys. The bionic kidney can be put into the human body by plain surgery and so far it has been shown to work effectively with everyone. It consists several microchips that are working with the work of the heart. This bionic kidney filtrates toxins from the blood in the same way as human kidneys. The main technology for this bionic kidney is a microchip made of silicon nanotechnology, much like microelectronics in computers. Microchips are cheap and can be used as good filters. Each device has about 15 microchips placed in layers and form a kind of armor in which living kidney cells are placed. The main challenge is to achieve blood flow through the bionic kidney without clotting and without interfering with the bloodstream. The most important thing about this bionic kidney is that there is no chance of being rejected by any body. The first prototype of a bionic kidney is already created and it is as big as a cup of coffee. So far, it has successfully maintained the balance of levels of potassium and sodium, and also it regulated blood pressure. The project is funded with a grant of $6 million from the National Institute of Health. 
I have a minor addiction to new technology. Passion and desire to learn about new tech innovations, space travels, AI etc. previous post 