Weapons / MQ-1 Predator goes dormant 
In the mid-nineties the american air force was first used in the latest unmanned aerial vehicle rq-1 predator. After a few years, this technique was not only to perform reconnaissance tasks, but also to strike at ground targets. However, time spares no one. Now the "Predator" is considered obsolete and therefore no longer fit for service. 
A few days ago, the us armed forces started the process of rejection of such equipment. In mid-february, the air force of the United States reported on their plans for the near future in the context of the fleet. According to official data, the command decided to abandon one of the oldest multi-purpose unmanned aircraft, the armament. Uav general atomics rq/mq-1 predator has long ceased to fully meet the requirements, and in addition, the existing machines of this type managed to develop the resource. In this regard, the drones should be removed from service and replaced by more improved products. The solemn ceremony, during which "Predatory" had to say goodbye to the service was scheduled for 9 march. 
On the specified day at the airbase creek (pcs nv) officials held the most real send-off honored, but obsolete equipment. However, the order for removal of the uav from service does not provide for the immediate and simultaneous cancellation of all machines. The program of decommissioning will be implemented within a few months, and because in the near future some uavs will continue the service. Despite a number of common issues and incomplete compliance with modern requirements, the mq-1 will be operational until the end of the year. The drones will continue to fly in the middle east, where, together with other equipment your class will solve the problems of exploration and strikes. 
The last flight is scheduled for december 2018. Thereafter, all remaining available vehicles will be decommissioned and returned to the United States . Abandoning outdated predator uav, the U.S. Armed forces do not remain without the necessary equipment capable of conducting aerial reconnaissance and missile and bomb strikes. So, in february it was announced what technology in the future will take work, performed while retiring the mq-1. 
A significant portion of reconnaissance missions will now be performed using the apparatus of the Northrop grumman rq-4 global hawk, deprived of the ability to carry weapons. Air strikes will be the task of the uav general atomics mq-9 reaper. Also, without work does not remain, and the apparatus of the mq-1c gray eagle. According to official data, write-drones mq-1 is not planned to send for recycling. Of this equipment is supposed to pass the aviation and military-technical museums. 
A technique of this kind is not the most frequent exhibits of the museums, and you can imagine what interest for the general public represent the most famous unmanned vehicles. Machines, preserving a significant portion of the resource will go to storage. For an indefinite time, they will stand idle on the tucson. (pcs az) alongside other decommissioned or placed in reserve planes. What's next – not yet specified. 
However, some of the structure of the United States and other countries have already expressed interest in the decommissioned machines. Back in february, it was announced that a certain interest in the uav mq-1 show the U.S. Navy. The navy may be interested in purchasing a certain number of reconnaissance and strike drones, including those charged in other armed forces. Specific plans for the transfer of decommissioned air force "Of predatores" in terms of the cpa were not yet available. 
However previously it was stated that the commanders are already looking for the possibility of implementing such proposals. Current plans of the Pentagon just talking about the fact that in the history of the uav rq/mq-1 predator early to finish. It is possible that the former drones of the air force will find application in other institutions or other countries. However, it is obvious that such a technique – even at a favorable outcome and continuation of operation – is already close to the final end of his "Career". Recall history of the project, now known as the mq-1 began in january 1994, when the us military has signed a new contract with general atomics. In accordance with this document until mid-1996, the contractor was required to develop a new project, and build and test prototypes of promising uav. 
The new project had the working title of predator. Also, he received the army designation rq-1, pointing to intelligence tasks. The project was based on some already existing work, and because he took a lot of time. The first flight of the uav took place in early july 1994. This was followed by flight testing and debugging. 
In the framework of the development work was prepared three complexes, each of which consisted of one control station and four drones. In may next year promising machine to work in conditions close to real ones. The prototypes were involved in the military exercises roving sands 1995. Machines have successfully solved the problem of intelligence and helped the troops to fight with the conditional opponent. 
By results of check the exercise, a decision was made about sending the rq-1 into a hot spot. Since 1995, sets "Predator" operated in the balkans and regularly perform reconnaissance missions. Despite some problems, primarily associated with "Childhood diseases", the technique has shown itself in the best way. Reconnaissance with use of uavs was rather simple and easy. The results of the operation in yugoslavia, a new technique was recommended for mass production and full-scale operation. The beginning of the two thousandth's general atomics and related enterprises has completed the integration of weapons. 
The apparatus rq-1 had the opportunity to carry and use missiles "Air-land" agm-114 hellfire and aim-92 stinger. However, the maximum takeoff weight of just over 1 t was allowed to take on board no more than 2-4 missiles depending on their type. Despite these limitations, the armed predator was of great interest to the military. To 2001 inclusive armed forces and the central intelligence agency managed to get 60 units of rq-1. Just a few days after the attacks of 11 september 2001, this technique was again set to work. 
Drones were used for reconnaissance and search terrorists in Afghanistan. The information gathered using uavs have been used in the organization operation enduring freedom – Afghanistan. October 7 the drone with serial number "3034" for the first time attacked ground targets. He had to destroy one of leaders of terrorists. The task failed to execute, but uavs demonstrated their capabilities. 
In practice, it has been confirmed that the latest rq-1 predator is able not only to monitor ground targets and destroy them. As reconnaissance and strike machine, "Predator" no longer corresponded to its official designation. In this regard, in 2002 it was renamed mq-1. Early multifunction machine designated as the mq-1a, after modification of the mq-1b with a different board hardware. It should be noted that the latter designation could lead to confusion. 
In the same period was used to develop the project of deep modernization under the name mq-1 predator uav b. Subsequently, this received its own name mq-9 reaper, allowing to easily distinguish between the two apparatus. Data show that in total were ordered and built 360 uav rq/mq-1 all modifications. The main customer of such technology was the air force of the United States . Several major contracts were signed with the cia. 
Over time, units operating the predator drones was formed in the national guard. Demonstrating a high potential in dealing with reconnaissance and combat missions, "Predatory" are interested in the military of foreign countries. Besides the U.S. Such equipment is ordered to Italy , Turkey , united arab emirates and morocco. For obvious reasons, foreign customers have acquired a limited number of uavs and related equipment. 
As a result, they didn't deploy large formations, operating special equipment. In addition, some export contracts involved the transfer of equipment, not having the possibility of use of weapons. Drones predator all versions actively used in all local conflicts in recent years. American military and intelligence are regularly sent such equipment to suspected enemy positions to obtain new information or destroy the objectives. Over the years the expense of sorties went to tens of thousands, and the number of missile attacks have set new records and then beat them. Of course, not without equipment losses. 
According to official data, 60 drones were in service by the beginning of the war in Afghanistan in the next few years, were lost 20. A total of 360 built machines under certain circumstances has lost more than 80. Not to mention that the loss of aircraft never led to injury or death of the pilot, as it happens with manned aircraft. The most serious threat to operators was the penalty for violation of instructions and loss of entrusted equipment. Interestingly, even the loss products predator has had a positive impact on the further development and application of uavs. 
So, during the first operations in Afghanistan, one of the main causes of death technology was the icing at high altitudes. In this regard, in bp. Used materials of the topwar.ru 