Covai Post Network March 21, 2018 
COIMBATORE: BJP State unit President Tamilisai Soundararajan on Wednesday blamed the State police for failing to do their duty to protect party leaders and workers, despite intelligence report of an attack. 
“The party has planned to hold a massive demonstration on March 23 to draw the attention of Chief Minister and police officials in this regard,” Tamilisai told reporters here, after visiting party’s District unit President C.R. Nandakumar’s house where a petrol bomb was hurled on March 21. 
“The police was alerted immediately after our party office was attacked on March 7 and we requested them to give protection to senior functionaries. The police should have identified potential targets and extended protection,” she added. 
The BJP leader said police should take into account the recent revelations about the links of a murder accused, his financial dealings and fund transfers to terror outfits and also naxal operations. “The NIA investigations have revealed that how Coimbatore has become a base for extremist funding,” she alleged. 
Asked whether the party would demand a CBI probe into such incidents or seek the Centre’s intervention, Tamilisai said that the party had full trust in the State police. “Let them do their job and find out who is behind all this. They are in the know who are behind such acts.” 
On law and order situation following vandalising of statues in Pudukkottai, attack on Sankara Mutt in Salem, bomb attacks on BJP office and now at the house of its leader, she said that local police were competent enough to find out who were creating law and order problem. 
Criticising political parties, including the DMK, for protesting against the Rath Yatra Tamilisai said they (opposition parties) were trying to create a law and order problem. “It is not the VHP that is creating a problem. Only the opposition parties are creating a law and order problem.” 
Stalin, without even thinking or making an inquiry, blamed the BJP for the vandalising Periyar statue in Pudukkottai. “But will he challenge the CRPF, whose soldier was arrested, to come and vandalise the statues,” she asked 
“All parties should stop blaming the BJP or its other sister organisations for everything that is happening in the State,” Tamilisai said. ALSO READ