Supplier News 21 March 2018 Leonardo Worldwide Continues to Provide HotelREZ Hotels & Resorts with Digital Content Management Technology Visual Content Management Technology Ensures HotelREZ Properties Meet Travel Shopper Demands for Hotel Images and Rich Media 
Toronto, Canada – Leonardo Worldwide Corporation today announced its renewed agreement with HotelREZ Hotels & Resorts (HotelREZ), which provides distribution, revenue, sales and marketing services and consultancy to independent hotels and small hotel groups in over 40 countries. 
HotelREZ subscribed to Leonardo's VScape Digital Asset Management System in 2009 to fulfill a need for a simple solution to represent their hotels in the best possible light online. Nearly a decade later, HotelREZ still relies on VScape to manage and distribute visual content for properties around the world. 
As one of the largest representation companies in the world with more than 850 properties, each with hundreds of content assets, HotelREZ uses the Leonardo technology, VScape, as their central hub to manage thousands of visual content assets and from HotelREZ member properties to ensure they continue to meet travel shoppers' growing demands for images, virtual tours and videos on third-party travel websites and their own branded property websites. 
Regardless of geographical location, file format and size, VScape standardizes all digital assets and pushes them into a globally distributed cloud environment for delivery to travel channels, branded websites, and other brand repositories. 
" We found in Leonardo a reliable partner that can help us manage and distribute digital assets in a consistent manner for all our member properties across all channels (proprietary and third party). With Leonardo, we are able to audit our assets, monitor image quality as well as understand where content is being seen and shared, all in one system," says Sharon Wimborne, Executive Director eCommerce and Global Marketing, HotelREZ Limited. 
"We're thrilled to extend our relationship with HotelREZ. Our technology is unique as it provides a true central repository that streamlines and automates digital content display and distribution not only on third-party travel websites, but their own branded web properties as well. This ensures that the guest experience is consistent and current across all channels, which helps drive revenue," says Mark Charlinski, Chief Revenue Officer, Leonardo. About Leonardo 
Leonardo Worldwide Corporation is a technology company serving the global hospitality industry. Leonardo provides e-marketers at hotel brands, management companies, hotel properties and travel websites with technology solutions that help them better reach, engage, convert and satisfy travel shoppers. Leonardo's core products include Vizlly, a Digital Marketing Solution that helps hotels drive more bookings at a lower cost through SEO, a conversion-drive website, Facebook Apps and digital brochures for third-party channels; VScape® Digital Asset Management System, an enterprise-level digital asset management and distribution tool that helps hotel chains better source, manage, organize, store, and publish media assets to direct and indirect online travel channels; and MediaConnect, advanced connectivity for travel websites to access the industry's definitive source of normalized hotel certified visual content. 
For more information about Leonardo, visit leonardo.com . Media Contact 
Julie Ford About HotelREZ 
HotelREZ Hotels & Resorts was started in 2004 by Mark Lewis, an experienced hospitality industry professional and entrepreneur. Over the course of a decade the company has grown to be one of the leading hotel representation companies dedicated to marketing and connecting independent hotels with bookers worldwide. HotelREZ now provides distribution, revenue, sales consultancy and marketing services and support to more than 1,000 hotels and small hotel groups worldwide including private label GDS chain code solutions. 
For more information about HotelREZ, visit hotelrez.com . Media Contact