Supplier News 21 March 2018 10 Step Guide to Attracting the New Digital Traveler 
Everywhere we turn, we are faced with 'new' — new trends, new technology, new guest expectations. This constant evolution is as exciting as it is, at times, stressful for industry leaders hoping to stay ahead of the curve while helping to establish new and improved industry standards. At the heart of this on-going evolution exists the new aged digital traveler, and hoteliers' desire to understand better what they look for within their hospitality experience. 
Implementing a strategy to nurture the next generation of guests is essential for any property, and the task of winning the hearts and minds of this highly profitable guest is really much easier than it sounds. It comes down to taking care of the details and using trusted tools. As we head towards an ever more tech-centric age to come, hotels that will succeed are those that adopt or continue to actively embrace all that the latest technology offers. 
With this in mind, StayNTouch has compiled an exclusive 10-step guide to ensure your hotel is best equipped to attract the modern, digital traveler. 1. Invest in Tech 
The digital traveler has their finger on the pulse of the latest and greatest tech trends. Appeal to their penchant for technology by equipping your hotel with advanced offerings such as AI personal assistants, complimentary streaming services, in-room mobile controls, mobile room keys and more. 2. Personalized Service 
The modern guest wants their hotel to anticipate their needs, expectations and values, in order to curate a truly personalized experience. Ensure you have an advanced, insight-focused PMS system in place that allows you to better understand (and engage with) each guest. 3. Utilize Machine Learning Technology 
In order to personalize your guests' booking and on-property experience, your PMS system should utilize machine learning technology to track online navigation patterns, geographical location, and seasonality data. With this data, the software you have in place can strategically tailor content based on each traveler's buying or guest journey, in real time. 4. Mobile Functionality 
Help your digital guest stay connected 24/7, right from the palm of their hand, with mobile-optimized features such as booking, check-in, check-out, concierge and self-service stations. Arm your staff with tablets and a mobile device so that they are free to engage with guests anywhere on-property. 5. Make Sure There Is an App For That 
The digital guest readily embraces any opportunity to increase efficiency while on-the-go. By creating an app for your hotel, you can better connect with your digital-savvy guest, create a central hub for hotel information and offer app-specific perks or exclusive promotions. Ideally, your mobile app should be a one-stop solution for all your travel needs. 
CLICK HERE to download the full guide or go to http://www.stayntouch.com/resources/10-step-guide-to-attract-digital-travelers/?utm_source=HSyndicate-HSMAI-HospitalityNet About StayNTouch® 
StayNTouch is a "Software as a Service" mobile hotel property management system (PMS) company focused on developing solutions that help hotels raise service levels, drive revenues, reduce costs, and ultimately change the way hotels can captivate their guests. Developed with mobility in mind, the pioneering platform enables hotels to create long lasting relationships with their guests by delivering personalized service levels that today"s guests require. StayNTouch operates on tablets and smartphones, empowering hotel employees to go above and beyond in exceeding guest expectations at every touch point. 
Powering over 85,000 rooms globally, our game-changing solution frees hotels from the constraints of legacy or premise systems, dramatically streamlines operations, increases margins, and revolutionizes how front-line staff connect with guests. StayNTouch is a trusted partner to many of the most forward thinking hotels, resorts, casinos and chains in the industry, including Yotel, Zoku Amsterdam, Conscious Hotels, Valencia Hotels, The Freehand Hotels, Modus hotels and the Fontainebleau Miami Beach.