Home / News / ASA bans essay-writing firm's advert ASA bans essay-writing firm's advert EB News: 21/03/2018 - 11:42 
UK Essays has had its adverts banned after being found to be misleading to students. 
As reported by the BBC, the Advertising Standards Authority ruled that the company have not made it clear that the papers were not meant to be submitted as students’ own work. 
The online ad also wrongly stated that the company had received positive coverage by the press. 
According to the BBC, its website featured text that stated "guaranteed grade, every time. We're so confident you'll love the work we produce, we guarantee the final grade of the work. 
"Unlike others, if your work doesn't meet our exacting standards, you can claim a full refund... loved by customers & the global press UK Essays have lots of press coverage from all over the world confirming that a 2:1 piece of work produced by us met this standard... We were the first company in the world to offer you guaranteed 2:1 and 1st class work”. 
UK Essays have said that it will make sure its fair usage policy is more prominent within the website. Wealthy parents should be taxed to make allocation of grammar places fairer 22/03/2018 - 10:35 
Research has shown that children who have been tutored for the 11-plus are more likely to win a grammar school place. Education committee calls for reforms on social mobility commission 22/03/2018 - 10:25 
The education committee has said that the social mobility commission should be given the power to publish impact assessments on social injustice in legislative proposals. Mayor launches £3 million sports programme for young people 21/03/2018 - 12:05 
The Mayor of London, Sadiq Khan, has launched 'Sport Unites', an innovative new programme that uses the power of sport to boost social integration, increase participation and improve the physical and mental health of Londoners. Scottish teachers set to strike over management practices 21/03/2018 - 10:19 
NASUWT has issued a notice of strike action to East Dunbartonshire Council following its failure to tackle management practices which the union says “have an adverse impact on the workload and working conditions of teachers”. DfE to “work closely” with social work profession 20/03/2018 - 16:42 
A series of measures have been set out by the Department for Education (DfE) to raise the status of the social work profession. Latest Magazine