Aldi Talk most popular German mobile brand - DISQ survey   15:14 CET | News 
Aldi Talk was named the most popular mobile brand in Germany, followed by Smartmobil and Blau, in a new survey on customer satisfaction in the mobile industry from the German Institute for Service Quality (DISQ). The three providers all received a ranking of 'good' in the DISQ survey. Overall, the survey found that mobile discounters were more popular among consumers than network operators. 
Aldi Talk came in first place with 79.6 points based on high levels of customer satisfaction with its products, including contract conditions and tariff offerings, as well as its customer service, and users’ strong willingness to recommend Aldi Talk to friends. Smartmobil and Blau likewise received high scores of 79 and 77.7 percent, respectively, for their tariff offerings and customers’ willingness to recommend these brands. 
1&1 scored the highest (77.1 points) among the main operators at fifth place overall and was the only major provider to receive a ranking of 'good'. It was followed by Congstar (74.8) and Lidl Connect (74.2) at sixth and seventh place. Vodafone (65.5) and Telekom (64.4) were among the lowest ranked brands at fifteenth and sixteenth place, respectively, and both received a ranking of 'satisfactory'. O2 came in last place (18th) with a score of 58 points and was the only provider to receive an overall score of 'sufficient'. 
The DISQ surveyed 1,820 respondents and found that overall satisfaction with the mobile industry improved from a year ago, with the industry’s overall score rising in the survey from 69 to 71.1 points. The survey also found that German mobile customers were highly price conscious, with respondents saying the price of mobile tariffs as well as other promotions or discounts were the most important reason for their choice of mobile tariff. A total of 77 percent said they were satisfied with the price of their provider’s respective tariff. Consumers also prefer to use messaging rather than make phone calls, wrote DISQ. Two-thirds of respondents said they sent messages daily while only 40 percent said they used their phone to make phone calls every day. WhatsApp was found to be the most popular messaging service, with 60 percent of respondents saying they would not want to forgo the app.  