Columbia Threadneedle Investments: Japan still favourite as volatility rocks markets   
Please see below the latest Asset Allocation from Maya Bhandari and Toby Nangle, portfolio managers in the multi-asset team at Columbia Threadneedle Investments. 
While we have made no major changes to our broad asset allocation in the past month, markets have been anything but quiet. The strong market performance of 2017 reflected, to a meaningful degree, investors pricing assets for a much better economic and earnings environment – but the sharp drawdowns we saw in February did not, to our minds, reflect a sharp deterioration in this outlook. 
The violent spike in risk aversion was driven by technical rather than fundamental factors as the combination of a large shakeout in highly levered volatility vehicles (such as exchange-traded funds and exchange-traded notes), coupled with extended investor positioning, drove a sharp increase in equity volatility and a fall in prices that was not mirrored in other asset classes – credit markets were notably well behaved during this period. 
We were cautious not to step in the way of large systematic funds that were liquidating assets, but this ‘valuation shock’ gave us the opportunity to increase exposure to favoured markets and capture the value lost by market participants that had become forced sellers. To that end, our positive, reflationary economic outlook for 2018, accompanied by good earnings forecasts and a sparse risk of recession, point to few fundamental drivers for risk off markets. That said, the risk of an ‘accidental’ crisis or policy mistake has probably increased. 
This leaves us with a preference for equities, commodities and property over core nominal and inflation-linked government bonds with credit and cash marked at neutral. Within equities, a clear preference is maintained for Japan, Asian emerging markets and Europe, each of which is highly operationally levered to ongoing global reflation. Our recent work has turned to analysing these positions, with a particular focus on European and Japanese equities. 
Europe European equities, being procyclical, operationally geared and international, are well placed to benefit from the current reflationary global macro environment. We believe rising bond yields, mounting inflation expectations and a steeper curve are helpful to European stocks, with the latter factor particularly helpful for corporate earnings in the financials sector. 
Monetary conditions are far from restrictive in Europe and recession risk is low; indeed, recessions have never occurred in the region unless real interest rates are at least 2% in the US and the yield curve inverted. Moreover, manufacturing sentiment indicators remain strong, while wage pressures (Germany apart) have yet to emerge, creating a potential 'sweet spot' for companies to expand profit margins (we are, however, keeping an eye on surveys indicating that labour is becoming scarce). 
On a valuation basis, European equities relative to other European assets and other equity regions remain compelling. But among the chief risks are movements in the exchange rate (which will likely reduce corporate earnings by 3-5 percentage points, lowering our forecast for 2018 to 10%-12%), and a parallel shift up in the yield curve. 
Japan Our constructive view on Japanese equities has not changed. Global demand is the chief driver of corporate earnings and these are expected to grow by an above consensus 11% in 2018 – we also expect above-consensus corporate earnings in 2019. Although sudden and large currency moves could be problematic, especially for large exporters, we believe companies can adapt to more gradual moves and Japan only has around a third of its revenue base overseas, which is relatively modest in a global context. 
The broader context for Japanese companies is one of smartly rising non-manufacturing and manufacturing operating profit margins. Although these are low by international comparison, reflecting Japan’s higher cost base, the direction of travel is clearly favourable with plenty of upside as companies increasingly focus on shareholder returns. 
Also, after a period of extreme monetary ease, the Bank of Japan has shifted from a quantity to quality target and our expectations are for a modestly higher targeted yield, supported by gently rising inflation. Japan is no longer a safe haven but a destination for foreign investors that creates a positive flow support. It remains our only strongly favoured asset class.