DBRS Illustrative Insights: Economic Diversification of Luxembourg   
This week, in the newsletter of DBRS Illustrative Insights, DBRS highlights the theme of Economic Diversification of Luxembourg. 
DBRS views the ongoing diversification of Luxembourg’s small economy as favourable. Luxembourg remains both highly resilient and attractive as an investment destination, supported by its highly skilled workforce, competitive tax and legal frameworks and political stability. Although the country has a relatively limited degree of economic diversification, with the financial sector accounting for 24% of gross value added (GVA), policy efforts to diversify the economy away from the financial sector to other high value-added industries continue to advance. 
The government began its policy of economic diversification in 2004, identifying five key priority sectors: information and communication technologies (ICT), logistics, the space industry, biotechnology and eco-technologies. Investment in these areas helped Luxembourg develop a strong technological infrastructure. The country is the European leader in digital skills. In the satellite industry, Luxembourg is among the top ten countries in the world with an active space presence. 
Of the five diversification priority sectors, the ICT sector has more than tripled in the past 14 years in terms of GVA, growing by over 100% since 2014 alone. The sector accounted for 11.4% of Luxembourg’s GVA as at Q3 2017, up from 4.3% in 2004. The area of professional, scientific and technical services has risen by 16% since 2014 and now accounts for 8.5% of GVA. The logistics sector has also seen an improvement in recent years, growing by 26% since 2014, in part driven by freight transport. 
DBRS sees the recent intensification of diversification initiatives positively. In November 2016, the government presented its “Third Industrial Revolution” strategic study (also known as the Rifkin study) on the long-term orientation of Luxembourg’s economy, which aims at the interconnection of ICT, transport and energy sectors. Moreover, aiming to place Luxembourg at the forefront of the space industry, the government adopted a new space law last year. This is the first law in the world on the use and exploration of space resources (space mining), providing private companies with a legal framework.