Industry Update Supplier News 21 March 2018 Stoney Creek Hospitality Relies on Maestro Analytics to Create Targeted Marketing Campaigns and Effective Performance Reporting Maestro Analytics Pulls Data by Hotel, Date, Market, or Guests for 15 Property Independent Hotel Group 
Markham, Ontario – Stoney Creek Hospitality wanted a new multi- property software system that would centralize operations for its 15 hotels. "We needed to automate property management and easily collect and utilize property performance data and guest information from our hotels. The bottom line goal was to manage our chain better and provide intelligence to support more effective marketing. Maestro PMS property software delivers all this perfectly," said Holly Martin, Stoney Creek's Training and Development Manager. Stoney Creek's 15 properties extend across five states and offer a blend of modern lodge comfort, urban convenience and resort-style relaxation. Each has its own market and marketing challenges. 
Stoney Creek Hospitality is opening its newest property in Broken Arrow, OK. "Maestro Analytics is an integrated multi-property Business Intelligence reporting system. Today we are running a marketing program in Broken Arrow to introduce our new property to its market," said Martin. "Maestro's professional team helped us create a program that leverages Analytics data to identify the most appropriate guests to receive a promotional offer to introduce them to the Stoney Creek flag." The Maestro Analytics Business Intelligence Module allows operators to 'see' beyond the numbers to increase marketing opportunities and profitability. 
Warren Dehan, Maestro PMS President said, "Maestro Analytics enables properties and hotel groups to leverage a wide variety of guest information and performance data from individual properties or hotel groups. This lets them manage by the numbers and create more successful marketing campaigns by targeting specific guests, segments, date ranges and more. Stoney Creek uses Analytics data to optimize property performance and design personalized marketing programs based on guest preferences." 
Stoney Creek's Martin said, "The most valuable Analytics' reports for me are the Sales and Marketing views that show all properties with the number of guests, their origins and reservation source, OTA, travel agent or other. The data is easy to understand and put to work. At Broken Arrow, Analytics helps us shape our marketing promotion to be more successful in appealing to the specific market and its needs." 
Multi-Property Management is perfect for Stoney Creek Hospitality's spread-out property locations. "Maestro's Multi-Property Management is very flexible. We can see our total property operation, or specific markets or hotels. The system is web-based so we can log in anywhere from our laptops. Our corporate managers can easily optimize property rates or sales strategies remotely." 
Stoney Creek Hospitality is completing its roll out of Maestro Multi-Property across its 15 hotels in 2018. "The Maestro installation team is very professional. We have our own support and training person who understands our operation. Maestro's Diamond Plus Support is available 24/7 by phone, text message, email, or video sessions and GoToMeeting. The installation has been very smooth and the system is excellent." 
Maestro PMS delivers revenue-generating property software tools and services that increase profitability. Click here for more information on how to reserve, engage and socialize with Maestro PMS. About Maestro PMS 
Maestro is the preferred cloud and on-premises PMS solution for independent hotels, luxury resorts, conference centers, vacation rentals, and multi-property groups. Maestro's PCI certified and EMV ready enterprise system offers 20+ integrated modules on a single database including web and mobile apps to increase profitability, drive direct bookings, centralize operations, and enable operators to engage guests with a personalized experience. For over 37 years Maestro's Diamond Plus Service has provided unparalleled 24/7 North American based support and education services to keep hospitality groups operational and productive. Click here for more information on Maestro. 
Contact