BaselWorld 2018: Brands to watch out for March 21, 2018 5:50 pm 
A watch is a fashion statement. 
With the recent advances in engineering, watchmakers have been hard at work at making the best watches possible. 
With tomorrow’s BaselWorld, in Basel, Switzerland, we are expecting a few watchmakers to announce and release the very best this year. 
What to watch out for? 
This year is BaselWorld’s 101st; the event attracts both key players in the watch and jewelry industry. 
In no specific order, we have compiled the best of the best from fashion to utility. It’s all here. 
Top 10 brands this year 
1-Bulgari 
It’s no surprise, that Bulgari made the list. 
This brand has been making watches for the past 134 years, recently diverging into the smart-watch industry. 
They have had significant releases such as the perpetual watch at BaselWorld 2006 
This year we are expecting them to release a new line of amazing timepieces. 
2- Porsche Design 
Recently they added an in-house fly-back chronograph feature which means, that you can restart a chronograph with only one push. A traditional chronograph would require 3 pushes instead, as reported by WatchTime. 
Porsche Design has never disappointed anyone with anything they have redesigned or worked in, and we are also hoping to see some great watches from them. 
3- Omega 
Omega released their 5 limited edition, Seamaster Olympic Games Collection, as reported by WatchTime. This timepiece has 5 colored watches each with a distinct color that matches every single ring of the Olympic Games’ logo. 
Read: Obtaining ‘Second Citizenship’: Which programs are affordable? 
4-Blancpain 
Blancpain has been a staple to all, with its iconic complete calendar moon-phase timepieces, which have been around since the early 1980s, and they continue to improve, so we are expecting to see some amazing timepieces this year as well. 
5- Montblanc 
Their exceptional and simple designs have been my favorite for many years; the Summit Smartwatch delivers style and incredible functionality. 
6- TAG Huer 
With their release in 2004, the Monaco V4, the watch was designed with innovation in mind setting a new bar for watchmakers all over the world. 
We are hoping to see amazing things from this company at BaselWorld 2018 especially a reiteration of their Carrera Heuer 02. 
7- Chanel 
A brand renowned for their incredible fashion designs, they have been one of the leaders in women’s fashion and what they will bring is still a mystery. 
Watch: VIDEO: Dubai interview with CEO of Breitling on luxury watch market 
8- Tissot 
It was named the official timekeeper for the Paris bike race and it released a timepiece called T-Race Cycling watch. 
At BaselWorld 2018, they are coming in stronger than ever. 
9- Breitling 
This year at BaselWorld; Breitling is releasing 4 watches: NAVITIMER SUPER 8, NAVITIMER 1 AUTOMATIC 38, SUPEROCEAN HÉRITAGE II and CHRONOMAT B01 CHRONOGRAPH 44. 
10- Calvin Klein 
They are sticking to their mechanical watches for the time being as they believe they are unique with their iconic braided metallic watch strap. 
Honorable mention: Wear OS by Google 
With the newly rebranded Android Wear released this week by Google, some enthusiasts are expecting brands to release a new watch. 
But many Tech sites, such as GSMarena have been quoted as saying “Android Wear is dead and a rebrand won’t save it” and “too little too late”.