StarHub enters open electricity market with Sunseap   10:50 CET | News Singapore operators StarHub has signed a partnership agreement with sustainable energy firm Sunseap to enter Singapore’s open electricity market. Starting April, residents in Jurong will be the first to power all their home gadgets and appliances including TV sets, laptops and washing machines with clean energy. Households will be able to switch out of their existing electricity retailer and go solar without owning or installing solar panels. 
Consumers will be able to choose their desired electricity retailers according to their usage patterns and the prices offered. As part of this joint operation, StarHub and Sunseap are collaborating on customer service, billing and sales. Both companies are also exploring opportunities in smart energy and IoT services for their customers. 
To champion clean energy use, 5 percent of StarHub’s profits out of this business in the first three years will be channelled into the StarHub Clean Energy Fund. The fund will be used to drive environmental conservation initiatives including clean energy and efficiencies, StarHub also said. Sunseap’s solar energy is harvested from its rooftop solar systems across more than 1,000 buildings in Singapore, including public housing estates as well as commercial and industrial buildings, which convert sunlight into solar energy. 
Starting April, StarHub and Sunseap will offer customers two clean energy subscription plans called ‘Green Life’ and ‘Green Save’. The Green Life service is a 100 percent clean energy plan for environmentally conscious customers. Customers on the Green Life plan will receive electricity fully produced by Sunseap’s solar systems at no additional cost. Electricity will be charged at the usual regulated electricity tariff. 
According to StarHub, the ‘Green Save’ plan allows customers to become more environment-friendly while enjoy some savings. With this plan, customers will receive 5 percent clean energy and a 20 percent discount off the regulated tariff. Customers can register their interest for the new service at the StarHub website. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.