“Polished” Keane McMahon promising convincing victory on Celtic Clash 5 By irishboxing   
A more polished Keane McMahon [2(0)-0] is expecting to shine this coming weekend. 
The Inner-City Dub fights for the second time in a month after a lay off between his debut and second and second outing – and feels the quick turnaround has been beneficial. 
The tall welter outpointed Filip Rzadek in Waterford on February 17th after a nine-month lay off and was back in the gym after a short break. 
Having ditched the ring rust and gone straight back to work, the prospect now feels he will produce an improved performance on the ‘Celtic Clash 5’ card in Driminagh on Saturday night. Widgets Magazine 
“Things were excellent in this camp. I did everything right and spot on just like the Waterford fight. I got some good sparring and seeing the improvements in myself day in day out,” McMahon told Irish-Boxing.com before addressing the quick turnaround. 
“There is a bit of a difference, to be honest, but I am happy for the quick turn around. My last fight was a comfortable enough night’s work so it meant I came into this training camp fresh and with no knocks which is always good.” 
“Now I just want to be a little more polished if anything. I was rusty the last time, over nine months of inactivity. So just more polished and a little bit sharper if anything.” 
Manning the away corner when ‘The Iceman’ steps into the ring this Saturday night will be Radoslav Mitev. 
The Bulgarian will familiar to Irish small hall fans and has faced the likes of Lewis Crocker, Bernard Roe, Philip Sutcliffe Jr and more. 
Indeed, in just his second pro fight he beat Michael Harvey in Belfast. 23-year-old McMahon is aware he will at the very least get a good work out in D12 but is predicting a convincing win. 
“I fight Radoslav Mitev, a game Bulgarian veteran with a ton of fights. I was supposed to fight him before but had a few problems outside the ring so the fight was pulled.” 
“I’m expecting him to be tough but I’m expecting a win. I’m expecting a convincing win.” 
“I won’t rush anything, if the KO comes it comes, but no doubt a win.” 
– 
The ‘Celtic Clash 5’ card is headlined by a BUI Celtic super featherweight title fight which sees Stephen McAfee and Colin O’Donovan rematch. Featuring on the undercard alongside McMahon will be Blanchardstown cruiserweight debutant Chris Scuvie, Ballybrack lightweight Niall O’Connor, Jobstown super bantamweight Carl McDonald, Lucan welter John Joyce, Crumlin lightweight Martin Quinn, and Crumlin-based Cavan light middleweight debutant Owen Duffy. 
Tickets for the show are priced at €55 (ringside) and €35 (unreserved) and are available from the fighters involved. Keane McMahon can be contacted at 085 6344 511 or via the Boxing Ireland Promotions Facebook page 
Photo Credit: Ricardo Guglielminotti – The Fighting Irish (@ThefIrish) Share this: