GlobalPlatform, IoT Connectivity Alliance enter MoU  10 CET | News 
Industry associations GlobalPlatform and the IoT Connectivity Alliance (ICA) entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU). The two technical bodies will work to develop and promote a standardised approach to Internet of Things (IoT) security based on secure component technology. The companies said their joint action will reduce the cost and streamline the development of large-scale consumer and industrial IoT deployments. 
The ICA is committed to promoting the establishment of an open, interconnected and secure ecosystem for the global IoT market. One of its key priorities for the year ahead is the development of secure authentication for IoT devices and cloud services, to tackle the issue of IoT security fragmentation in the Chinese market. 
GlobalPlatform standardises two secure component technologies, Secure Element (SE) and Trusted Execution Environment (TEE), both of which address various functional and security requirements in IoT, including the protection of authentication services, device attestation and cloud enrollment. Collaboration between the two associations will foster the adoption of GlobalPlatform SE and TEE standards, as security baselines for IoT devices, and simplify their integration. This work will enhance interoperability and reduce the cost and complexity of secure IoT deployments. 
Both key players in driving the adoption of open and interoperable standards, GlobalPlatform and the ICA will collaborate on alternative interfaces for the connection of embedded SE’s based on serial peripheral interface (SPI) and inter-integrated circuit (IIC) devices. This is part of the IoT road map defined by GlobalPlatform’s Consumer and Industrial IoT Task Forces, which are working to identify, define and evaluate the business and technical requirements needed for the secure deployment of IoT services. 
The ICA and GlobalPlatform will continue promoting collaboration in the field of secure component technology, and the widespread adoption of IoT security standards in international markets.  