Supplier News 21 March 2018 The Ivey’s Hotel Selects KEYPR As Partner for Guest Experience Technology Art deco-vintage Charlotte, NC boutique hotel to deploy KEYPR’s cloud-based platform which brings the latest guest experience technology to the hospitality industry City View King Room - The Ivey's Hotel, Charlotte NC 
Los Angeles, CA – KEYPR ® , the leading cloud-based, technology platform for the hospitality industry providing an integrated end-to-end experience for guests and staff through embedded and mobile devices, announced today that The Ivey's Hotel will be implementing its expansive hospitality platform, marking KEYPR's first property in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
"Our property distinguishes itself from other hotels in Charlotte for its historic ties to the city, custom-made art deco and Parisian-inspired flourishes," said the hotel's General Manager, Morgan Diep. "KEYPR's features will allow us to add another level of sophistication to our guests' stays, all while maintaining the ambiance of visiting The Ivey's." 
Located in the heart of Charlotte's Uptown district, The Ivey's Hotel has cemented itself as the ultimate luxury boutique experience in Charlotte by blending Parisian glamour with contemporary touches. The since-converted 1920s department store boasts 42 stylishly appointed rooms and suites, where the only thing they have in common is resting on 400 year old French oak floors. Through the KEYPR platform, guests and staff of The Ivey's will have access to a custom mobile app, in-room tablets, and KEYPR's Guest Experience Management System (GEMS®) which combined, will dramatically improve operational efficiency, drive new revenue opportunities, and meet the expectations of today's highly-connected traveler. 
"We are excited to kick off our relationship with The Ivey's Hotel, a beautiful property in Charlotte and a wonderful addition to the stable of boutique hotels using the KEYPR platform, the broadest available in hospitality," said KEYPR CEO Robert Stevenson. "Guests will enjoy having full mobile and tablet access to The Ivey's Hotel and its surroundings, whether it be just for planning a trip to the Levine Museum of the New South, or simply ordering delicious room service." 
The rollout of the KEYPR platform includes deploying in-room tablets, GEMS, mobile check-in and keyless entry. Guests will be able to expedite check-in and checkout via the mobile app, and use their mobile devices to enter the property's amenities without a key, thus modernizing one of Charlotte's most elegant and esteemed properties. About KEYPR 
KEYPR® is a cloud-based guest experience and management platform for hotels, casinos and residential properties. The platform delivers a friction-free personalized guest experience, while creating new operational efficiencies and driving additional revenue opportunities for property owners. Guests can access a directory of services, including dining, entertainment, third-party content and more through an in-room tablet and custom mobile app. The app also allows guests to bypass the front desk via keyless entry. Additionally, owners and managers gain valuable insight through the integrated dashboard (GEMS®) and intuitive tools that provide visibility into guest needs before, during and after their stay – all while easily monitoring operational KPIs across multiple properties. For further information, visit: www.keypr.com . 
About The Ivey's Situated just north of the historic Trade and Tryon Street intersection in Uptown, the property features 42 guest rooms, including three balcony suites overlooking Tryon Street and six executive suites, steps away from all the city's major attractions. The MRK Hotel Collection saw the need for a true, luxury boutique hotel in the market and within just four months of being open, the property was met with rave reviews from leisure and business travelers, making the hotel a welcomed new leader and top destination in the South, and the number one traveler rated hotel on TripAdvisor. CONTACT Senior Director of Marketing, KEYPR 
Contact