Supplier News 21 March 2018 InterContinental® Buckhead Atlanta Reduces Costly Chargebacks with Sertifi InterContinental® Buckhead Atlanta, an InterContinental Hotels Group (IHG) property, lowers costly and time-consuming chargebacks by 86 percent and collects valid payment authorizations from guests online within minutes using Sertifi eAuthorize. 
Since implementing Sertifi eAuthorize , the hotel property has significantly reduced the number of chargeback cases each month and has better control of fraudulent activity. The technology has decreased the number of non-refundable chargeback fees from the hotel's acquiring bank as well as employee time spent on filing and following up on fraud-related cases. 
All payment authorization forms are now sent to guests via email to complete securely online in a PCI-compliant manner. Each form includes an eSignature from the cardholder to further help reduce the number of disputes, strengthen protection from scams, and prevent revenue loss. Collects Valid Authorizations the First Time, Every Time 
In addition to significantly reducing expensive chargebacks, the hotel now collects accurate payment authorizations on the first attempt opposed to only 60 percent of the time when using the traditional method of print, sign, and fax. 
Sertifi helps the property combat incomplete forms such as those missing address information, erroneous forms containing all sorts of mistakes, and illegible forms. Beforehand, these types of issues created prolonged delays and led to employees spending countless hours on follow ups. 
"Sertifi eAuthorize lets us take an actual authorization on the guest's card – it validates through the cardholder's address and allows our team to be more productive on the job," says Jennifer Lombard Knight, director of front office operations, InterContinental® Buckhead Atlanta. Guests Spend Five Minutes Completing Forms vs 1.5 Hours 
Since introducing Sertifi eAuthorize, the total working time required of a guest is 18 times faster. Guests are no longer hassled with locating a functioning printer and fax machine. On-the-move guests can sign anywhere, anytime! 
The overall turnaround time dropped from an average of two days to merely minutes, allowing hotel employees to focus on what matters most – creating extraordinary guest experiences. 
"IHG has a wide array of strong hotel brands, including thousands of properties around the world, and we look forward to continuing our partnership with this diverse, international brand. We believe happy guests and paper forms simply don't mix and Sertifi eAuthorize brings efficiency, convenience, and compliance to hotel properties around the world that need to collect secure payment authorizations from their guests," says John Stojka, co-founder, Sertifi. About the Hotel 
InterContinental® Buckhead Atlanta offers sophisticated business and leisure travelers a host of quality facilities. Southern hospitality is assured in our unique event spaces, including two opulent ballrooms and the breathtaking Windsor Garden. Reconnect with a range of holistic therapies and treatments from around the world at Jurique Spa. Let award-winning chef Art Smith astonish you at the hotel's exquisite Southern Art restaurant, followed by a nightcap of fine whiskey at Bourbon Bar. 
Contact Director of Marketing About Sertifi 
Sertifi is the leader in Frictionless Business, with innovative solutions for modernizing the last mile of the sales process. Sertifi offers the fastest and most secure way to close business, from eSignatures to online payment capture. Thousands of companies around the world trust Sertifi to close more deals faster, recognize revenue quickly, enhance security and compliance, and go completely paperless.