Novel PET Imaging Agent Targets Copper Atoms By   21 Mar 2018 A novel positron emission tomography/computed tomography (PET/CT) imaging agent that traces copper accumulation in tumors can help detect prostate cancer (PC) recurrence, according to a new study. Researchers at Galliera Hospital (Genoa, Italy), Humanitas Research Hospital (Milano, Italy), and other institutions conducted a study that prospectively evaluated 50 PC patients with relapse after surgery or external-beam radiation therapy (EBRT), as identified by rising prostate-specific antigen (PSA) levels. All patients underwent 64CuCl2 PET/CT, 18F-choline PET/CT, and multi-parametric   (mpMRI) within a 15-day period in order to evaluate and compare the biodistribution, kinetics, and radiation dosimetry of 64CuCl2 in humans. Experienced readers interpreted the images, and the detection rate of each imaging modality was then calculated. Histopathology, clinical or laboratory response, and multidisciplinary follow-up were used to confirm the site of disease. The results revealed that maximum 64CuCl2 uptake at PC sites relapse was observed one hour after tracer injection. 64CuCl2 PET/CT proved positive in 41 of 50 patients, with an overall detection rate of 82%; detection rates of 18F-choline PET/CT and mpMRI were 56% and 74%, respectively. The study was published in the March 2018 issue of The Journal of Nuclear Medicine. “This study determined that the biodistribution of 64CuCl2 is more suitable than that of 18F-Choline for exploring the pelvis and prostatic bed,” said lead author Arnoldo Piccardo, MD, of Galliera Hospital. “Early detection of prostate cancer relapse may improve the clinical management of patients, for example implementing early salvage radiotherapy. Larger trials with this PET tracer are expected to further define its capabilities and role in the management of prostate cancer.” Copper-64 is a positron-emitting isotope of copper, with applications for molecular radiotherapy and PET. The coordination chemistry of copper allows for its reaction with a wide variety of chelator systems that can be linked to antibodies, proteins, peptides, and other biologically relevant small molecules. The longer half-life of 64Cu delivers optimal bio-distribution of slower clearing agents, such as monoclonal antibodies, nanoparticles, and higher molecular weight polypeptides requiring longer imaging times. Related Links: Humanitas Research Hospital Read the full article by registering today, it's FREE! Register now for FREE to MedImaging.net and get complete access to news and events that shape the world of Radiology. Free digital version edition of Medical Imaging International sent by email on regular basis Free print version of Medical Imaging International magazine (available only outside USA and Canada). Free and unlimited access to back issues of Medical Imaging International in digital format Free Medical Imaging International Newsletter sent every 2 weeks containing the latest news Free breaking news sent via email Free access to Events Calendar Free access to LinkXpress new product services REGISTRATION IS FREE AND EASY! Sign in: Registered website members Username: