Hydrogel Developed for Controlled Release of Immunotherapeutic Drugs   21 Mar 2018 Cancer researchers have developed an injectable hydrogel designed to expedite the controlled release of a cyclic dinucleotide drug for enhanced cancer immunotherapy. Recent advancements in the field of immunotherapy have yielded encouraging results for the treatment of advanced cancers. Cyclic dinucleotides (CDNs) are a powerful new class of immunotherapy drugs known as STING (Stimulator of Interferon Genes) agonists, currently in clinical trials. However, previous studies of CDNs in mouse cancer models have demonstrated the necessity for multiple injections and improved survival only in relatively nonaggressive tumor models. Investigators at Rice University (Houston, TX, USA) sought to improve the efficacy of CDN immunotherapy by developing a novel biomaterial. This injectable peptide hydrogel was a positively charged, MultiDomain Peptide (MDP), which self-assembled to form a nanofibrous matrix and was easily delivered by syringe. They named the material “STINGel.” STINGel was designed to localize at the tumor to provide controlled release of CDN delivery, showing an eight-fold slower release rate compared to a standard collagen hydrogel. The investigators tested STINGel in both laboratory cultures and in vivo. They reported in the February 6,   Biomaterials that for the in vivo portion, six groups of 10 rodents each were treated with CDN alone, control collagens alone, with CDN-MDP alone, or with STINGel (CDN plus MDP). Only one in 10 CDN or collagen plus CDN animals survived 105 days, but six of 10 animals treated with STINGel survived. "The normal approach to CDN delivery is simple injection, but this leads to very rapid diffusion of the drug throughout the body and reduces its concentration at the site of the tumor to very low levels,"   Jeffrey Hartgerink, professor of chemistry and bioengineering at Rice University. "Using the same amount of CDN, the STINGel approach allows the concentration of CDN near the tumor to remain much higher for long periods of time. The CDN we used in this study is currently in clinical trials. We think that our STINGel approach has the potential to significantly broaden the scope of this powerful immunotherapy drug to a larger range of resistant cancers." Related Links: Rice University Read the full article by registering today, it's FREE! Register now for FREE to BiotechDaily.com and get complete access to news and events that shape the world of biotechnology. Free digital version edition of Bio Research International sent by email on regular basis Free print version of Bio Research International magazine (available only outside USA and Canada). Free and unlimited access to back issues of Bio Research International in digital format Free Bio Research International Newsletter sent every 2 weeks containing the latest news Free breaking news sent via email Free access to Events Calendar Free access to LinkXpress new product services REGISTRATION IS FREE AND EASY! Sign in: Registered website members Username: