Oakwood Expands “Oakwood Apartments” Portfolio of Branded Properties Oakwood Apartments’ total inventory to nearly double within the year 
SINGAPORE -- Oakwood Worldwide, the global leader in furnished and serviced apartments, is rapidly growing its portfolio of Oakwood Apartments branded properties in Asia with the portfolio's total inventory expected to nearly double to a total of 1,078 keys within the year. 
"We are expanding our portfolio of "Oakwood Apartments" properties in China and Japan - markets where we have a strong presence." said Dean Schreiber, managing director of Oakwood Worldwide, Asia Pacific. "In our portfolio we offer a full range of products, each designed to cater to a different lifestyle, from relocating families and travelers seeking a community vibe, to an increasing number independent travelers who treasure mobility, utility and convenience - and this is where "Oakwood Apartments" is the most appropriate product that meets their needs." 
In Japan where Oakwood currently operates 11 properties, there are plans to introduce two new Oakwood Apartments properties. Oakwood Apartments Nishi-Shinjuku, Tokyo - a 40 unit serviced apartment in western Shinjuku offering a choice of studio or one-bedroom apartments is slated to open in the second quarter of the year. Oakwood Hotel & Apartments Shin-Osaka, opening its doors in the third quarter, will be the first property to be introduced outside of Tokyo and will offer 185 rooms and serviced apartments. 
In China, the Oakwood Apartments product will be making its debut at the end of the year with projects in Yangzhou and Sanya. These two cities are part of Oakwood's strategic expansion into thecountry's second and third tier cities. Offering 144 units and 163 units respectively, both properties will be the first Oakwood property to be introduced in their respective cities. About Oakwood Worldwide 
Oakwood Worldwide ® , based in Los Angeles, Calif., is the leading provider of corporate housing and serviced apartment solutions through its two well-known brands, Oakwood ® and ExecuStay ® . Both brands provide move-in-ready furnished housing designed to meet the needs of business travelers on long- and short-term assignments. Oakwood has access to the largest selection of housing options and a presence in all 50 United States and more than 55 countries. ExecuStay is the preferred corporate housing partner of Marriott ® International and is the only corporate housing brand where guests can earn Marriott Rewards ® points for stays at any ExecuStay location in the U.S. For more information, please visit www.oakwood.com and www.execustay.com .