March-ing Right Along: Hilton Garden Inn Continues Rapid Global Growth with Four New Hotel Openings Award-Winning Upscale Brand Arrives in Las Vegas City Center and Three International Destinations 
MCLEAN, Va. - Hilton Garden Inn , the award-winning, upscale brand from Hilton (NYSE: HLT) known for its inviting atmosphere with warm service, announces another month of robust growth. Continuing its steady progression, the brand opened four new hotels - from the U.S. to Russia to Germany - featuring enhanced food and beverage offerings, modern and contemporary designs, and the brand's hallmark bright and airy décor. 
"Hilton Garden Inn continues to expand in key business and leisure destinations, where guests desire comfortable and affordable accommodations with great food and beverage," said John Greenleaf, global head, Hilton Garden Inn. "We proudly take simple things to the next level, whether that be with a handcrafted cocktail at the end of a long day or a warm and welcoming smile from one of our dedicated Team Members." New Hotel Highlights Include: 
Germany : Hilton Garden Inn Frankfurt City Centre An upscale modern hotel in the heart of this vibrant city, the property is on the famed Kaiserstrasse square near the Main Train Station, Old Town and the Museum of Natural History. Hotel highlights include a variety of German cuisine at The Garden Grille and a Lobby Bar featuring international beers and fine wine. 
Russia : Hilton Garden Inn Novorossiysk A waterfront property just steps from the beach - as well as multiple shopping and dining destinations - the hotel puts a priority on well-being through its massage rooms and Wellness Zone. Other features include large indoor and outdoor pools, a pool bar and a rooftop bar with a diverse menu of handcrafted cocktails . . . complete with stunning views of the Tsemes Bay. 
Saudi Arabia : Hilton Garden Inn Al Khobar Situated within walking distance of the popular Mall of Dhahran, the hotel features a modern design boasting bright, natural light and a rooftop pool. Additional amenities include daily room service and a large event center with state-of-the-art audio-visual equipment. 
With recent enhancements to its award-winning food & beverage offerings, Hilton Garden Inn provides numerous choices for diners in each hotel's restaurant, lounge and 24/7 retail space - everything from handcrafted cocktails to locally-inspired small plates and entrees. Additionally, guest rooms are designed for work and comfort, with such features and amenities as large work desks, Serta beds, a mini-fridge, HDTV and complementary Wi-Fi. 
All Hilton Garden Inn hotels are part of Hilton Honors, the award-winning guest-loyalty program for Hilton's 14 distinct hotel brands. Members who book directly through preferred Hilton channels save time and money and gain instant access to the benefits they care about most, such as an exclusive member discount, free Wi-Fi and a flexible payment slider that allows members to choose nearly any combination of Points and money to book a stay. Members can also redeem their Points for free nights, to gain access to unique events through the Hilton Honors auction platform or to make purchases with Amazon Shop with Points. 
For more information about Hilton Garden Inn, please visit www.hgi.com or news.hgi.com . 
*Service of alcohol subject to state and local laws. Must be of legal drinking age. 
Contact Director, Brand Public Relations - Hilton WorldwidePhone: +1 901 374 6518 About Hilton 
Hilton (NYSE: HLT) is a leading global hospitality company, with a portfolio of 14 world-class brands comprising nearly 4,900 properties with more than 796,000 rooms in 104 countries and territories. Hilton is dedicated to fulfilling its mission to be the world"s most hospitable company by delivering exceptional experiences – every hotel, every guest, every time. The company's portfolio includes Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts, Canopy by Hilton, Curio - A Collection by Hilton, DoubleTree by Hilton, Tapestry Collection by Hilton, Embassy Suites by Hilton, Hilton Garden Inn, Hampton by Hilton, Tru by Hilton, Homewood Suites by Hilton, Home2 Suites by Hilton and Hilton Grand Vacations. The company also manages an award-winning customer loyalty program, Hilton HHonors®. Hilton HHonors members who book directly through preferred Hilton channels have access to benefits including an exclusive member discount, free standard Wi-Fi, as well as digital amenities that are available exclusively through the industry-leading Hilton HHonors app, where Hilton HHonors members can check-in, choose their room, and access their room using a Digital Key. Visit news.hiltonworldwide.com for more information and connect with Hilton on Facebook , Twitter , LinkedIn , Instagram and YouTube .