Nightflyers 
"It's Psycho in space." That's George R. R. Martin's own description of Nightflyers , a new series coming to SyFy based on his novella of the same name. In a turn from the familiar setting of his massively popular Game of Thrones , Nightflyers finds the crew of a spaceship carrying a mysterious being that must not be let loose on Earth, at all costs. The 10-part series comes to SyFy Fall of 2018. The Titan 
Earth is nearly depleted, and the survival of humanity hangs in the balance. Pilot Rick Janssen has been tapped for a deep-space mission to Saturn's Titan moon — but in the course of training, he finds out that a larger experiment is afoot to create super beings capable of surviving the moon's harsh conditions. The Titan stars Sam Worthington, Taylor Schilling, and comes to Netflix March 30, 2018. Fastest Car 
The newest Netflix series is trying to prove that money can't buy you speed. Every episode, they'll put three sleeper cars up against some of the world's fastest supercars. You'll see everything from Ferraris and Porsches to Hondas and minivans going head-to-head on the quarter mile with the owners clashing along the way. The show will premiere April 6, 2018. Casper Pillow 
A good pillow can be the difference between a night of restful sleep and a literal pain in the neck. The team at Casper knows this and designed a pillow that provides comfort and support regardless of your sleeping position. They've invented a unique pillow-in-pillow with a firm inner core and a soft outer shell. Thanks to the even fill distribution of silky fibers, the pillow won't lose its shape. It's also finished with breathable percale cotton to keep airflow moving and your pillow cool. It's even machine washable. Take advantage of the 100-night trial, and if you don't love it, Casper will give you a free refund. 
Presented by Casper. Hamilton Khaki X-Wind Automatic Chronograph Watch 
Thanks to the Khaki X-Wind, pilots can calculate and record the crosswinds they'll encounter on their next journey using a watch. That's due to the world's first drift-angle calculator included in the Khaki Aviation X-Wind. And you don't have to be flying to appreciate this timepiece, featuring a modified Valjoux 7750 movement, automatic chronograph, a tan leather strap with rivets, and a 60-hour power reserve. So whether you're working out the specs for an upcoming flight, or navigating life on the ground, the X-Wind offers precision, function, and a handsome appearance that is a welcome addition to any collection. 
Presented by Hamilton. No Sleep For A Week 
Not sleeping for a week won't break any records, but it might break you. The effects of going without sleep are well documented, but there's also a growing body of research that suggests sleep deprivation can have a beneficial effect on depression. Life Noggin looks at the ups and downs of not sleeping. Won't You Be My Neighbor? 
For several generations of children, Fred Rogers was the epitome of kindness, showing that no matter how scary or difficult life could be, you always had a friend — and your imagination was your biggest asset. Directed by Acadamy Award-winning filmmaker Morgan Neville, Won't You Be My Neighbor takes an intimate look at the man behind the cardigan, with never-before-seen archival footage and interviews with cast and crew members. The film is set for limited release in June of 2018. Get on the Black List. 
Be the first to know about the newest gear, automobiles, and apparel for men. YOU’RE NOW ON THE LIST. “If James Bond were to make an app for the stuff he wanted to buy, this would be the app.” 
— Doug Stephens, Retail Futurist 