Press Release 21 March 2018 Why Qatar’s Project Pipeline has Quickly Become One to Watch Within the hospitality industry, Qatar has long been a country known as a relatively busy transit spot thanks to its popular airport 
Within the hospitality industry, Qatar has long been a country known as a relatively busy transit spot. Its Hamad International Airport connects to 100 different destinations, making Qatar a popular destination for layovers as visitors wait to head to other countries. 
For some, however, it has also become common place to tack a few extra days onto their trips in order to spend more time in Qatar, which is a tiny Gulf nation that has grown in terms of the offerings it has to entice guests. In many ways, Qatar is somewhat of an ideal place to spend a few days in the Middle East: it's one of the safest countries in the entire world, there's a rich variety of beaches, it features year round sunshine, and the food is on par with the best the region has to offer. 
That's why today we're going to be taking a look at some of the hottest destinations in Qatar, as well as at information about the country's hotel project pipeline from the TOPHOTELCONSTRUCTION database . Tourist Attractions Making Qatar More Popular with Guests 
Travel experts say that there are plenty of places to spend some time in Qatar, but among the best are the country's famous sand dunes, which are as high as they are steep. In fact, for many making the drive across the desert and to the sea in Qatar is an amazing experience. While doing so, guests have the option to spend a night in a luxury Arabian tent or to pitch their own. They can, of course, also spend some time sleeping under the stars. 
The other must-see tourism experience in Qatar is taking in Doha's Corniche and dhows. Simply put, a walk along Qatar's Doha Corniche is an absolutely gorgeous way to spend a typical late afternoon. There's a seven kilometer stretch of promenade there that goes across the Persian Gulf in the Way Bay from the Sheraton Hotel to the famous Museum of Islamic Art, and along the way you can grab coffee, fly kits and, of course, take photos by Qatar's iconic pearl shell, which stands as a traditional symbol of its past. Qatar's Project Pipeline 
Hotel construction is also booming in Qatar, according to information from the TOPHOTELCONSTRUCTION database . 
In fact, as of now, Qatar currently has 47 projects in its pipeline that once completed stand to yield a total of 13,679 rooms. The majority of these projects—29 to be exact—are slated to open in 2018, and 60 percent of the total projects in Qatar's pipeline will be designated as luxury hotels while the other 40 percent are tabbed as first class. 
Let's take a look at a few other projects currently underway in Qatar: