  Summer launch planned for Maple at Westfield White City ETM is set to launch a new restaurant and bar, Maple, in White City this summer as part of the latest Westfield London expansion.   
Designed by Russell Sage Studio, this botanical-themed venue is set to become the hub of the new development. Open seven days a week, the 170-cover restaurant will offer modern-European brasserie dining, fine wines, artisan spirits and inventive botanical cocktails. 
A central bar with six overhanging 500 litre copper beer tanks, dispensing a rotating selection of guest craft beers, will take centre stage, alongside an open plan theatre kitchen. The menu will feature elegant dishes using the best of the UK’s heritage breeds and responsibly sourced fish – expect colourful plates of ceviche, seasonal salads, prime meat cuts and wild fish served on-the-bone. 
The striking interior features natural woods including chevron parquet flooring and intricate drilled timber panelling. Brass and copper finishes are matched with vibrant colours, botanical-themed walls and a mixture of plush leather banquettes, compact club bar chairs and high-level stools. 
The bright and welcoming interiors continue through to the 30-cover alfresco terrace, decked with overhanging planters and heaters, offering shelter all-year-round. 
“The expansion at Westfield London offers a fantastic opportunity to join a thriving venture," says Ed Martin, co-founder of ETM. "Launching a new restaurant and bar at a world-class shopping and leisure destination is a first for ETM, but we believe it is the perfect next step for us. We are confident that Maple will play a key part in the future success of Westfield and we look forward to the exciting summer ahead.” 
Maple follows the success of recent new openings including City venues: Broadleaf, Long Arm Pub & Brewery and rooftop destination, Aviary, as well as Greenwood at Nova in Victoria. 
Having opened five new sites in the last 18 months, ETM continues to build on its expansion plans with a strong location strategy in place, alongside robust concepts and an obsession to deliver consistent quality.