Home / The incident / Details strange poisonings in the suburbs: the account of victims went into the hundreds Details strange poisonings in the suburbs: the account of victims went into the hundreds 1 hour ago The incident 2 Views 
Became known the details of the emergency in Volokolamsk. Admission of students to the emergency room with complaints of malaise associated with release of gas at garbage landfill “Sound”. 
On incident have already notified the Commissioner for children’s rights in Moscow region Xenia Mironova. In the administration of the Volokolamsk called the hospital students of city school №2 for spraying a gas canister, incorrect, reports RT. 
Initially in a hospital emergency room with complaints of malaise asked four students. They are given the help they need – parents are allowed to take their children home, the learning process is not interrupted. But then the number of patients has increased to 39. As the cause of the incident, local authorities are considering the release of gas at garbage landfill “Sound”. The chief of Management of education of administration of city district Dmitry Prozorov said that in the morning was an unpleasant smell. For this reason, some of the locals picking up the kids from school and took them for a checkup at the hospital. See also: AMD revealed details on its new processors 
By 14:00 GMT. to doctors with complaints to a poisoning there were 183 people, according to Life.ru. All victims have the same symptoms: nausea, weakness, dizziness and disorientation. It is noted that the residents of the city district is not just out to protest because of the situation on the ground. After the Governor of Moscow region Andrei Vorobyov instructed to solve the problem in three months. According Volokolamsk city court, LLC “Sound” (the operator of the landfill) March 19, was recognised by guilty under article “non-observance ecological and sanitary-epidemiological requirements for waste management of production and consumption”, reports the website of the Russian Agency legal and judicial information (RAPSI). The court sentenced the perpetrator to a penalty of 150 thousand rubles. In turn, the head of the Volokolamsk district 6 March adopted a decree on the introduction of state of emergency and the implementation of supplementary measures on elimination of consequences caused by violation of environmental legislation in the operation of solid waste landfill “Sound”. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share