Home / policy / And damned missiles out of my head do not go! And damned missiles out of my head do not go! 9   
Of Message 20 day went, and I remember how those elusive rocket – tremors throughout the body. But at the same time and the pride is huge – this is necessary where the national scientific and technological progress has given up! Because the thing is secret, so all of its details, the Russian… 
Old age, not wave away. And I want to eat! 
The dentist says, well, a denture adhesive special grease up and squeeze tightly. Aesthetics will provide, will do nicely. But sometimes when walking fall will be, but it’s not terrible, it’s plastic – wipe with a handkerchief and again in the mouth strengthen. Or implants and they are secure. As native would be even better. Starts about the merits of these cogs to tell. It says Israel is cheaper, but survives longer. This Germany is more expensive, but “organic”, with the bone firmly fused, recommend. See also: In Latvia, prepared the "black list" of Russian names 
And what podeshevshe, interested, no? Can native our production advise? There’s some this morning to launch our Putin showed! It meets, possible. Several factories of cast iron are already doing and offer domestic implants. Much, I can even say several times cheaper. But one disadvantage! They should on the other hand, the jaw bone lock nut to fasten. No, I refuse, let us not then of Israel. Why do I need the locking nut? Me nuts not needed… And the damn missiles out of my head do not go! Well, how so? Controparti human ahead of the whole world. And extend his pleasant life through the device for normal chewing of food is we not able! See also: USA struck with missiles on the coast of Yemen 
About the eye do not speak. Two points with a drag: read “away”. Asking a friend ophthalmologist about lenses. A trifling matter, says, 30 minutes and vision was even worse than the Indian’s Watchful Eye. 60-70 thousand to all the fun, in the sense of replacement of one lens. To put, of course, have German or American. And so, mind we same launch … It to listen about the missiles that were cut off – they get dull quickly, the crystals, if they are of bottle glass to do. Well, the teeth really like to do, and with eyes so goggles would kill, not the master in ‘ 72 lenses to put… But what missiles are we doing!!!  