Focused John Joyce determined not to slip-up as title chase continues By irishboxing | on March 21, 2018 | Headline News 
John Joyce [4(2)-0] is adamant his Celtic Clash 5 bout is as important as any other. 
Following his victory over a brave Ferenc Jarko in Waterford last month his team hinted title fights are in the pipeline but suggested a keep busy fight would come first. 
However, the extremely competitive Joyce doesn’t see his four round clash Tomasz Goluch [6(4)-10(5)] on Saturday night at Good Counsel GAA in Drimnagh as anything other than a big fight he has to win. 
“I don’t feel that way about it I treat every fight as a world title fight and this won’t be any different,” Joyce told Irish-Boxing.com before predicting a victory. Widgets Magazine 
“I will win. We will see on the night how it plays out but a win for me is my prediction.” 
Victory for the Lucan native on a show topped by the mouthwatering Stephen McAfee v Colin O’Donovan rematch will progress him toward some domestic dust-ups of his own as his manager Tony Davitt had previously suggested. 
The BUI Celtic 147lbs title is currently held by former amateur opponent Jay Byrne – although he is keen for a step up to Irish title level. Should Byrne get his wish this would leave a vacant Celtic belt which Joyce could contest versus the likes of Rohan Date or fellow Celtic Clash 5 undercard fighter Keane McMahon. 
Joyce isn’t one for naming names but the fighter himself admits buckling a title around his waist is the main goal for 2018. 
“A title, that’s all I’m focused on for this year and I hope it comes,” he added before reflecting on his recent win on the Ring Kings February 17th card in Waterford. 
“I was very composed and relaxed all the way through the fight and I hope I can bring that into all my fights.” 
“Camp went really well I just pretty much jumped straight back in after Waterford so it was just about staying sharp because my fitness was already there.” 
– 
Featuring on the Celtic Clash 5 undercard alongside Joyce will be Blanchardstown cruiserweight debutant Chris Scuvie, Ballybrack lightweight Niall O’Connor, Jobstown super bantamweight Carl McDonald, Smithfield welter Keane McMahon, Crumlin lightweight Martin Quinn, and Crumlin-based Cavan light middleweight debutant Owen Duffy. 
Tickets for the show are priced at €55 (ringside) and €35 (unreserved) and are available from the fighters involved. Keane McMahon can be contacted at 086 1900 203 or via the Boxing Ireland Promotions Facebook page 
Photo Credit: Ricardo Guglielminotti – The Fighting Irish (@ThefIrish) Share this: