The Philly Filipino helping Carl Frampton prepare for Nonito Donaire By Joe O'Neill | on March 21, 2018 | Headline News 
Belfast featherweight Carl Frampton [24(14)-1(0)] has brought in some hot American talent for his upcoming showdown with Nonito Donaire. 
‘The Jackal’ takes on four-weight champion Donaire [38(24)-4(1)] at the SSE Odyssey Arena on Saturday April 21st and has flown in a rising prospect for preparation. 
Philidelphia puncher Stephen Fulton [12(5)-0] has been brought in to emulate the Filipino legend in sparring. 
Frampton is back at the VIP Gym in Astley outside of Manchester having returned from two weeks of warm-weather altitude training in Tenerife and Fulton will be his main sparring partner for the final three heavy weeks of camp. Widgets Magazine 
23-year-old Fulton is grateful for the opportunity and described how “I love the body work, and I can definitely learn a lot from him being out here.” 
“He [Frampton] is a nice, friendly guy and made me feel comfortable. In the ring, he’s very professional, and they definitely like the work ethic that I bring.” 
“By observing and watching, I’m definitely going to pick up and learn a lot of things about what it takes to be a champion. I’m not far from being there. That’s why I’m here.” 
“I know it’s going to be a hard, tough camp, and I’m looking forward to experiencing his level of pressure and power in addition to being taught. Other sparring partners will be here, but until then, I think I can handle myself.” 
Fulton feels he has something to offer in the camp and explained how “I think maybe they saw my style and skillset—my movement, footwork, speed, punch-output and shot selection. Plus, they’re fighting Nonito Donaire, who bares some similarities to me. Like, Nonito has a nice left hook, and so do I.” 
“People can label me a prospect if they want to, but Frampton is back on the road to regaining a title, sees something in me and knows the level that I’m on.” 
The American, who along with Frampton is advised by Al Haymon, has big plans for 2018 and outlined how “After I complete this camp, I want to fight in March or April, my skills will be even more improved.” 
“I’m very smart, and that’s going to really show in the way I’m gonna be getting the job done. I know my time will come to fight for a title, sooner or later, so I’m not gonna rush it.” 
“I’ve beaten five undefeated fighters, the past two in televised fights, so the level opposition I’ve beaten speaks for itself.” Share this: