by Russell Coombes | Mar 21, 2018 | News , Products | 0 comments 
Iserlohn/Frankfurt: LUCTRA® is presenting its new VITAWORK lamp for the first time at Light + Building. The lamp complements its range of floor, table and portable lamps with a new variant which illuminates an entire room with both direct and indirect light. 
VITAWORK is a logical continuation of the LUCTRA® philosophy, bringing the latest LED technology to the workplace. The LEDs built into the lamp head provide energy-efficient illumination via a light panel with either symmetrical or asymmetrical light distribution. That means VITAWORK is suitable for illuminating larger and more spacious offices. The new LUCTRA® floor lamp fulfils the requirements of both the DIN EN 12464-1 standard and the German workplace ordinance ASR 3.4. 
Timeless design VITAWORK® continues LUCTRA’s focus on modest and functional design which was formed by the creators Yellow Design. With its emphasis on the quality of the light, the appearance is sleek and streamlined. The lamp’s clean lines fit perfectly into any interior design and add to the scheme. The touch panel used to operate the lamp is unobtrusive and intuitive. All materials used underscore the lamp’s high quality standard and can be recycled. 
The compact and slimline lamp head is edged in aluminium and complemented by black fins already familiar to the LUCTRA® portfolio. The lamp body is also aluminium with a black front which features the flush-mounted touch panel. The lamp’s base enables optimum positioning near a desk and the head’s centre of gravity is located very close to the lamp mast, providing optimum stability. 
Even lighting for rooms of any size VITAWORK® is available with three different luminous flux intensities which can light rooms of different size. 7,000, 12,000 or 17,000 lumens illuminate the working area evenly and extremely efficiently. The uniform colour temperature is 4,000 Kelvin. The combination of direct and indirect lighting provides particularly even illumination and both the upward and downward light can be dimmed. 
A variant with biologically effective lighting (2,700 – 6,500 K) using VITACORE® electronics developed and patented by LUCTRA® will be added to the range in 2019. 
Personalised features to meet the requirements of the room Alongside the touch panel, this latest member of the LUCTRA® family can be controlled via a presence or light-intensity sensor. While the presence sensor responds to movement, the light-intensity sensor continuously compares natural daylight with the intensity of lighting inside the room. VITAWORK’s LEDs adjust automatically to achieve consistent, high-quality lighting. 
VITAWORK can also be customised to your project, with the integration of corporate colours, for example. The cable lengths and lamp base design can be selected to meet the individual requirements of the room where the lamp will be used. USB ports can also be integrated into the lamp body and the colour temperature can be selected individually. 
Made in Germany Like all LUCTRA® lamps, VITAWORK® is assembled by expert staff at the LUCTRA® production plant in Kamen (North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany) and meets the highest of quality standards.