21 March 2018, 14:35 In Yerevan, protesters demand freedom for political prisoners 
Today, in Yerevan, six persons have come out to a protest action with the demand to release political prisoners and to remove Armenian President Serzh Sargsyan from power. Their protest has been provoked by the verdict pronounced by the court to Zhirair Sefilyan, the leader of the Armenian movement "100 years without regime". 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that on March 20, Zhirair Sefilyan and six other defendants were found guilty and sentenced to 2-10.5 years of imprisonment . 
Today, retired Colonel Volodya Avetisyan, released under the amnesty, has started his sitting strike on Freedom Square. Five persons have joined him. They have brought with them the national flags of Armenia and posters with slogans reading: "Armenia without political prisoners", reports the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent, who attended the action. 
Volodya Avetisyan told the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent that the verdict to Zhirair Sefilyan had provoked him to go to the square and start his sitting strike. 
"The society should get awaken to realize the threat from the current authorities and join our struggle to make the country fair and independent," emphasized Volodya Avetisyan. He has also noted that Serzh Sargsyan should resign. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Armine Martirosyan ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; Armenia; South Caucasus All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY