21 March 2018, 14:26 Chechen law enforcers banned to disclose any data about the murder in "Grozny-City" 
Ii is forbidden to disclose information about the shootout in the "Grozny-City" complex, which occurred on March 18, in order not to scare away tourists, a source told the " Caucasian Knot ". 
According to law enforcement sources, on March 18, on the day of the presidential election in Russia, an attacker drove up in a Toyota Camry to a security guard of the "Grozny-City", who was standing near the flower park and shot him several times in the face with a traumatic pistol. 
The MIA spokesman refused to comment on the shootout in the "Grozny-City" complex of high-rise buildings; no information on the incident was in the news stories of the "Grozny" and "Vainakh" Republic's TV Channels, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent reports. 
The MIA employees are "strictly forbidden" to disclose any information about the shooting at "Grozny-City", a law enforcement source explained to the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent. 
"There are several factors at once here: firstly, it happened on the election day; secondly, the incident occurred in the centre of the city, near the "Grozny-City" complex, which is visited by numerous tourists; therefore any disclosure of details is strictly prohibited," said the source. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: All news; Crime; Incidents; Chechnya; North-Caucasian Federal District All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY