21 March 2018, 06:00 Residents of Azerbaijan welcome Novruz Bayram 
In the evening on March 20, when the spring equinox came, Azerbaijanis saw the Novruz Bayram holiday in; its history has more than three thousand years. 
Five consecutive days, March 20-24, have been announced days-off in Azerbaijan on the occasion of the Novruz-Bayram holiday. 
Novruz-Bayram is a holiday of spring, it symbolizes the awakening of all living things. It is believed that one’s well-being in the coming year depends on the way a person has welcomed the Novruz. Therefore, it is a custom to buy new things for the holiday: clothes, furniture, and others. 
Azerbaijani residents celebrate Novruz Bayram with traditional tablefuls, where the main meal is the festive pilaf. On the first day of Novruz, the whole family should be at home. Local residents say: "If on the first day of Novruz you are not at home, then you will not see your home for seven years." 
On the day preceding the Novruz, it is a custom to make bonfires and jump through the flames. On March 19, the Novruz Bayram celebrations were launched in Baku in the Old Town, where a festive bonfire was lit at the Maiden Tower. 
The city also opened a festive exhibition-fair "Oriental Bazaar", located in the Baku Seaside Boulevard. See earlier reports: Author: Aziz Karimov ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Culture; Society; Azerbaijan; South Caucasus All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY