  Ontario Government accepts Damen proposal for full ferry electrification 
21 March 2018 Sustainable solution fits both parties’ views on the future of public transportation 
Damen is pleased to announce that the Government of Ontario has accepted its proposal to build two ferries with full electric propulsion. Damen is building a Road Ferry 6819 and a Road Ferry 9819 (68 metres and 98 metres respectively) to operate in the Canadian waters of the Great Lakes. The vessels will be the first fully electric, non-cable vessels in Canada. 
As part of the tender process for the contract to build the ferries, Damen was required to identify future innovations and green technologies for sustainable power solutions. Following careful consideration of the technology, the Government of Ontario has accepted Damen’s electrification proposal. It is estimated that electrification of the two ferries one servicing Kingston and Wolfe Island and the other Millhaven and Amherst Island (Loyalist Township) – will reduce emissions by the equivalent of 7 million kg carbon dioxide per year. 
Investing in green technology is part of Ontario’s plan to create fairness and opportunity at a time of rapid economic change. The Honourable Kathryn McGarry, Minister of Transportation, said, “ This is great news for residents and commuters in this region, knowing they will soon be able to ride a ferry that is completely powered by electricity. Investing in innovative green technology is helping Ontario become a leader in North America for sustainable transportation and our government is committed to improving service, while simultaneously reducing our carbon footprint .” 
Damen Product Director Ferries Henk Grunstra said: “It’s good to see the local authority take this cutting-edge and ambitious decision. This is a perfect fit to our ongoing ambition to electrify public transport all over the globe.” 
Damen Sales Manager Leo Postma said: “This is a solution that looks towards the future of waterborne public transportation. It offers a reliable, state-of-the-art system that will significantly reduce emissions.” 
Damen has tailored the design to ensure that the performance profile of the ferries is not affected by electrification. Their capacity to transport 300 passengers and 42 cars (6819 – Amherst Island Ferry) and 399 passengers and 75 cars (9819 – Wolfe Island Ferry) at speeds up to 12 knots remains the same as with conventional propulsion 
Damen’s scope of work in the project includes the installation of an automated mooring system, as well as charging system via which the vessels will be automatically connected to the shore power system for recharging the batteries. 
Damen Shipyards Group 
Damen Shipyards Group operates 34 shipbuilding and repair yards, employing 10, 000 people worldwide. Damen has delivered more than 6,000 vessels in more than 100 countries and delivers some 160 vessels annually to customers worldwide. Based on its unique, standardised ship-design concept Damen is able to guarantee consistent quality. 
Damen’s focus on standardisation, modular construction and keeping vessels in stock leads to short delivery times, low ‘total cost of ownership’, high resale values and reliable performance. Furthermore, Damen vessels are based on thorough R&D and proven technology. 
Damen offers a wide range of products, including tugs, workboats, naval and patrol vessels, high speed craft, cargo vessels, dredgers, vessels for the offshore industry, ferries, pontoons and superyachts. 
For nearly all vessel types Damen offers a broad range of services, including maintenance, spare parts delivery, training and the transfer of (shipbuilding) know-how. Damen also offers a variety of marine components, such as nozzles, rudders, anchors, anchor chains and steel works. 
Damen Shiprepair & Conversion (DSC) has a worldwide network of eighteen repair and conversion yards of which twelve are located in North West Europe. Facilities at the yards include more than 50 floating and (covered) drydocks, the largest of which is 420 x 90 metres, as well as slopes, ship lifts and indoor halls. Projects range from the smallest simple repairs through Class’ maintenance to complex refits and the complete conversion of large offshore structures. DSC completes around 1,300 repair and maintenance jobs annually, both at yards as well as in ports and during voyage 
For further information please contact 
Ben Littler 
31 (0) 183 65 5546 
31 (0) 610 46 5742