  Ampelmann Technology in the Spotlight at Annual Awards 
The Icemann is installed on the Stepan Makarov, a new ice-class platform standby vessel built for the Sakhalin-2 project Icemann gangway awarded OTC Spotlight on New Technology award 
Delft, 21 March 2018 
Ampelmann, a leader in the provision of safe offshore access to the energy industry, has been commended for its innovative N-type Icemann gangway with an OTC Spotlight on New Technology award. 
The N-type, nicknamed Icemann, is designed to safely and efficiently transfer crew in extreme icing and temperatures as low as -28C (-18F). The fully enclosed and insulated system is operational in sea states up to 3.5 metres significant wave height and comprises active motion compensation. 
The OTC Spotlight on New Technology awards recognizes the latest and most advanced technologies that are transforming the global oil and gas industry. 
The accolade comes as the Netherlands-based company surpassed more than four million people transfers worldwide since it was founded in 2007. 

The Icemann was created in response to growing demand for effective and safe personnel transfer equipment in frontier regions such as sub-Arctic, Norway and Canada 
Ampelmann created the Icemann in response to growing demand for effective and safe personnel transfer equipment in frontier regions such as sub-Arctic Norway and Canada. The system can rotate to 360 degrees and is controlled from the vessel with flexibility in platform landing locations and directions. 
Last year the Icemann was installed on the Stepan Makarov , a new ice-class platform standby vessel built for the Sakhalin-2 project under a 20-year charter between Sakhalin Energy and vessel operator, Sovcomflot. 
It is the first standby vessel in the world to use such a gangway for operations in severe ice states and temperatures. The system has already reached a milestone of more than 22,500 transfers since its arrival in August. 
Jan van der Tempel, Ampelmann’s chief executive officer, said: “At Ampelmann we are dedicated to the continued innovation of Walk to Work systems, it is fantastic to see our team’s hard work recognised by the OTC Spotlight on New Technology awards and we look forward to receiving our award next month at the show.” 
“Various extreme weather technologies were employed in the design of the Icemann, making it the most high performance gangway system that has ever been built from an operations and conditions point of view.” 
Ampelmann will be exhibiting at OTC 2018 from 30 April – 3 May on booth 1425 at the Dutch Pavilion, NRG Park, Houston, Texas. 
About Ampelmann 
Ampelmann designs and delivers innovative, safe, reliable and efficient transfer solutions to the offshore energy industries globally. With a track record of more than 4 million safe people transfers, more than 6.2 million kg cargo transfers and 200 projects worldwide, Ampelmann operates in Europe, Africa, Asia Pacific, the Americas and the Middle East. 
Ampelmann currently maintains a fleet of 55 operational systems used for transferring crews and cargo to offshore structures. Its solutions are tailored to the needs of different market segments, sea states, cargo and crew loads, and are used by the key players in the global industry. 
Issued on behalf of Ampelmann by Big Partnership. 
For further details please contact Gillian George on 01224 211045 or . Liked this post?