  Goldhofer's new Blade Transport Devices 
Goldhofer’s Director of Sales International Rainer Auerbacher and Area Sales Manager Günther Vogel handing over the first FSH and the FTV 500 to Peter Adams and his son Stefan. Photo by Goldhofer 
21 March 2018 
Bringing a fresh breeze to rotor blade transportation: three brand-new Goldhofer blade tip lifting devices (FSH 10) and a blade transport device (FTV 500) for the Adams Group. 
For many years now Goldhofer and the Adams Group of St. Vith have been writing a joint success story. Currently the fleet operated by the Belgian transport and civil engineering experts includes more than a hundred axle lines plus an extensive range of accessories from the world market leader for heavy and special transport solutions. 
Since 1997, the Adams Group has handled a number of spectacular transport operations in close collaboration with Goldhofer, many of them involving exceptional transport requirements that have triggered further developments to a variety of Goldhofer transport systems. 
To that extent it is not surprising that Adams should have decided to order no fewer than three brand-new FSH 10 blade tip lifting devices that Goldhofer has just launched on the market. 
Peter Adams, founder and now General Manager of the company, explains: “For us, rotor blades for the wind power industry are an everyday cargo. The FSH gives us a transport solution that puts us one step ahead of the competition – and enables us to offer rotor blade transport services with much shorter transport times on a highly cost-effective basis.” 
With the FSH, Goldhofer has developed a blade tip lifting device that can handle all standard rotor blades with a length of up to 75 m. With a payload capacity of up to 10 tons and a height of 10 m, Goldhofer’s new FSH is outstanding in this product category. 
It is designed as an autonomous system, with an integrated power unit to make it independent of the vehicle’s hydraulic and electrical systems. In order to negotiate difficult bends, the semitrailer can be retracted as the FSH is mounted on rails on the deck. 
With a stroke of 7,000 mm, the FSH is considerably more powerful and sets a benchmark for the transport of wind turbines. 
Peter Adams says: “With the three FSHs and the FTV 500, we have raised our transport capacities for the wind power industry to a new level and thus offer our customers decisive transport advantages." 
With the FTV 500, which was delivered together with the first FSH, the Adams Group has added a particularly powerblade blade transport device to its fleet. As the rotor blade mounted on the device can be raised hydraulically to an angle of up to 60 degrees, even the most challenging routes can be taken with the FTV 500, including passage under winding roads through forested areas. 
Peter Adams concludes: “The ratio of three FSHs to one FTV 50O is ideal for our order books today. We are now in a position to quickly transport a large number of blades and also offer reliable delivery to sites with poor access.” Liked this post?