Home / policy / What threatened to turn the events in Syria What threatened to turn the events in Syria 40 mins ago policy 0 Views 
Turkey has almost completed the “operation Olive branch”. The aim of the Turkish army was the city of Afrin and all surrounding areas, until recently under the control of Kurdish militias. 
When Recep Tayyip Erdogan just announced the operation, its outcome was already known. Few could doubt the ability of a professional army to fight the poorly armed and poorly trained semi-guerrilla units. Plus, on the side of Ankara were made by thousands of soldiers of the free Syrian army and some other groups. Her participation helped to organize an offensive from several directions, which significantly complicates the task of the people’s protection Units. If to speak about losses, then the difference is huge. Turkey has lost dozens of soldiers, while from the Kurds killed at least fifteen thousand people, and Turkish sources and is misleading on three thousand and even more. 
The offensive is not finished yet, but in the coming days, “operation Olive branch” will be finalized. The fact that the North-West of Aleppo province, the people’s protection Units now control just one small town, and a few sparsely populated villages. According to the latest reports, to finish the cleanup of the area will be mainly the soldiers of the Syrian free army with minor support of the Turkish armed forces. 
In General, Ankara succeeded, but I guess she’s not going to stop. Even before the Turkish soldiers crossed the Syrian border, Erdogan stated the need to expel the people’s protection Units of Manuja, which is to the East of Afrin. According to him, nothing can prevent Turkey to do it, even the us military is present there. He advised them to leave the territory of future operations, otherwise, for their safety, none. 
But before Manliga the Turkish military is not reached, however, there is no decline in military activity in Aleppo. The Turks are so fond of war that now their victims in large numbers to become soldiers of the Syrian Arab army. Among government forces, there are already more than a hundred killed by Turkish bombs and bullets (this is counting only those who died after the commencement of “operation Olive branch” — ed.). And apparently, the victims will become more and more. But this does not mean that Damascus is to close all eyes. No, the Syrians are responsible, periodically blowing into the side of the Turks and their allies of the rocket. See also: Russia should take responsibility for Ukraine 
Until recently, the field of fire was limited to the territories where he developed operation “Olive branch”, but something went wrong, anyway, hardly anyone could have expected such a response from Damascus. The fact that Turkey exploded rocket fired from Syria. Landed it in the area of Yayladagi, in the Hatay province. About the victims is not precisely known, but, apparently, they are not. 
Turkish journalists and military believe that a rocket fired from area controlled by the Syrian Arab army and the Syrian province of Latakia, moreover, there are suggestions that the launch site is located somewhere in the area of the Russian military airbase Hamim. Also very interesting is the fact that the missile was of Russian origin, although perhaps it would be better to say, Soviet. Talking about rocket complex “Point” (data modification is not — ed.). Despite the fact that there were no casualties, this incident really disturbed the Turkish side. Many questions arose. Main from them — as Russia is associated with this launch? 
We discussed with the Turkish military expert Kerama Yildirim. 
“SP”: — Who could produce such an attack? 
— If the missile was in some other district, there would be no doubt that this has made the Kurdish terrorist group. But after Afrin was released, they have no opportunity to attack these remote areas. They have no such weapons. So the situation is very complicated. There are two versions that you can consider. One of them is most suitable. After the Syrian regime agreed to cooperate with the YPG (the abbreviation of the people’s protection Units with Kurmanji — ed.) the Turkish army was forced to fight against the Syrian Arab army. There are several cases, when in the fighting with YPG was part of the government soldiers, not just voluntary formation. Many of them died, and this resulted in many incorrect actions by the regime. There was a lot of shelling of the positions of the Turkish army. This is wrong. Turkey’s actions are not directed against President Bashar al-Assad or against Syria. Turkey is not going to take part of Syria, these areas are given the same Syrians they can control, because it is their land. After the YPG have driven many Syrians from their homes, they can finally go back and continue to live on their land. But the military of Assad for some reason have to protect terrorists destroying Syria. And it is still ongoing. See also: People of art have nothing to do in politics 
“SP”: — That is a rocket in the direction of Turkey sent government forces? 
— This probability is high. It could be the formation of the government or its allies. This is supported by many arguments. I mentioned that the small forces of the Syrian army regularly attack Turkish army. Perhaps this is a coincidence, everything remains to be seen. But while everyone in Turkey think that it was the people Bashar al-Assad. 
“SP”: — what’s the second? 
— The second version is more complicated and less believable. But I think it could happen. Very suspicious the fact that a missile from Russia. Everyone knows that Syria has some number of these missiles. That is, no doubt, did the government forces. But it’s too obvious. For Assad it is very dangerous to act so. Such situations may lead to conflict of Turkey with Russia, which nobody wants, but if that happens, the Russians will be very angry with Assad. So very strange why it was done. High probability that it was a hoax. Syrian weapons during the war was partially divided between the regime, terrorists and the opposition. Perhaps the missiles were at any of the group in Idlib. Idlib you can easily strike the area. So this may be a provocation in an attempt to damage relations between Russia and Turkey. 
“SP”: — In Idlib a lot of Pro-Turkish groups. Why would they take such a step? 
— There are still terrorists and those who are Pro-American, and the United States have repeatedly demonstrated their desire to prevent the Union of Russia and Turkey in Syria. The United States could provoke this action from the opposition. But it’s one of the versions. This story can be a lot of participants. And while we need to understand. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share