Home / policy / Trump decided to strangle Putin in the arms Trump decided to strangle Putin in the arms 40 mins ago policy 0 Views 
The US President Donald trump said that he expects a new meeting with Russian leader Vladimir Putin “in the near future.” The purpose of the meeting was the discussion of “coming out of the control of the arms race”. On Tuesday, March 20, reported Bloomberg. 
According to the Agency, trump told them about the impending meeting after on the phone congratulated Putin on his re-election. “We had a very good conversation” — praised conversation trump. 
According to The New York Times, citing senior White house officials, trump told co-worker that is concerned about his statements about the development of invulnerable Intercontinental ballistic missiles. The publication notes that Putin in the presentation, demonstrated during his address to the Federal Assembly, was footage of Russian missiles aimed at Florida, where trump often resting at his residence Mar-a-Lago. 
Putin’s remark about slowing the arms race trump welcomed, but reminded that the US defence budget is $ 700 billion, “We will never allow anyone to have something even close to the fact that there are armed with us”, — said the American President. 
In addition, he noted that during the meeting would like to discuss with Putin “Ukraine, Syria, North Korea and many other things.” 
For its part, the Kremlin reported that the conversation between the two leaders “were constructive and focused on overcoming the problems that have accumulated in Russian-American relations.” Press Secretary of the President Dmitry Peskov stressed that the issue with the “business Skripal,” during a telephone conversation are not affected. 
Note: according to the Washington Post, advisers to trump national security team urged him not to congratulate Putin on his election victory, and, conversely, to condemn the incident in Salisbury, during which he was poisoned nervously-paralytic substance Sergei Skripal. But trump has shown the will, and has already started paying it off. 
American Republican Senator John McCain criticized trump for congratulation the Russian leader. 
“The American President was not leading the Free world, congratulating dictators with a victory in a sham election. And congratulated Vladimir Putin, President of trump insulted every Russian citizen who was denied the right to vote in free and fair elections,” McCain wrote in his Twitter. See also: Fake Colonel 
What is behind the initiative trump, how will the meeting between the two leaders at the Russian-American relations? 
— Putin’s statement about military matters, made in the course of the Message, has caused quite a stir in the West, — the leading expert of the Center for political-military studies, MGIMO, doctor of political Sciences Mikhail Alexandrov. — It is significant that in early March, three democratic senators — Jeff Merk, Diane Feinstein and Edward Markey — as well as independent Senator Bernie Sanders addressed the then US Secretary of state, Rex Tillerson with a call to start a comprehensive dialogue on strategic stability with Moscow. 
“The strategic dialogue between the US and Russia has become more urgent after the public statements of President Putin on 1 March, when he mentioned about several new types of nuclear weapons, which Russia reportedly is developing, including cruise missile and nuclear submarine UAV”, — said in a letter to U.S. lawmakers. 
The senators said that these new weapons are not limited by any treaties, and if they are deployed, destabilisateur situation in the world. In addition, the policy specified that new types of Russian strategic weapons are not subject to the contract start-3. That is why, they said, the United States should begin negotiations with Russia for a renewal of this agreement. 
In other words, from the point of view of the US problem looks like this: once Russia took the lead in strategic weapons, then it should be restricted. 
“SP”: — Why did almost all of the environment trump, if you believe the us media, tried to dissuade him from his call to Putin? 
Because the US continues relations with the Kremlin a game of good COP / bad COP. Trump to play the role of a good. And Congress, McCain, the press and conditional advisers trump act as bad. 
In the end, the impression that Donald trump, overcoming the terrible resistance of the American establishment, still goes on to give Putin the opportunity to meet him. And negotiate how you would like Russia to limit weapons. 
“SP”: — What really wants trump? 
— Inhibit us, limit our ability to achieve military superiority over America. Plus to gain time for the implementation of the American military programs in areas where they have lagged behind. See also: Iraq has decided to raise oil producers in Russia, but Novak "objects" 
In addition, Washington was convinced that direct pressure on Moscow not working: Putin won the election, instability in Russia has not happened, and hopes that the Russian elite will rise, did not materialize. 
If so, you need to change tactics, to involve Russia in the negotiations and to bind her hands. Needless to say that the Kremlin is in any case should not take any part in that Donald Trump?! 
— The US really want in any way to control the new arms race — said the political scientist, associate Professor, Financial University under the government of the Russian Federation Gevorg mirzayan. — Of course, certain circles in America, whipping up international tension and hysteria only on hand, because it means increased government spending on defense. However, real — system — arms race with Russia is not needed in Washington, because it weakens the US position in the world. 
That’s why trump is still very vividly and very vague — offers Moscow to sign some agreements, which can lower the level of military confrontation between Russia and the United States. 
This position of the American President, in my opinion, looks quite logical. Another thing is how he will freely act in the game of rapprochement with Moscow. 
You have to understand: the mere fact of the meeting between trump and Putin will cause a negative reaction in large public segment of America. And it creates for the White house the real threat. To neutralize them, trump needs to be sure that at the end of the meeting he will be able to achieve with Putin serious agreements. 
For his part, Putin needs to be sure that following the meeting with trump, he will reach such agreements that America wants to perform. 
This is a very difficult task. It is therefore declared that the leaders would agree not only on arms control but also on a wide range of international issues. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share