Wrangles over oil resources may hurt govt, observer warns File photo: Jok Madut Jok 
A South Sudanese observer warned that simmering wrangles on the country’s oil resources between President Kiir’s group and the opposition faction led by his first deputy Taban Deng Gai are likely to affect the unity government. 
Dr. Jok Madut Jok, Co-founder of the South Sudanese think-tank, the Sudd Institute, told Radio Tamazuj today that he sees differences between the two groups over the use of oil wealth, while pointing to sings of completion between them. 
“Ultimately there will be problems between the two groups. Taban Deng’s group has recently declined to pay money to a company belonging to Kiir’s community after supplying fuel to the country and instead awarded a contract to a foreign company based in Uganda,” he said. 
Jok claimed that some local companies have recently emerged and nobody knows their background. “When the resources become scarce, the two groups will definitely differ,” he said. 
Jok said the current unity government will face serious risks if wrangles over resources between the components of the unity government get out of control. 
The South Sudanese observer further said the recent decree issued by President Salva Kiir pointing his kin as the new undersecretary of the ministry of petroleum has exposed the height of nepotism in government. 
South Sudan’s President Salva Kiir Mayardit issued decrees recently appointing Salvatore Garang Mabiordit as the new minister of finance, Agak Achuol as the new undersecretary of the ministry of trade and Mayen Wol Jong as the new undersecretary of the ministry of petroleum. 
“The three people appointed by Kiir hail from the same community and are from one village in Gogrial,” Jok said. 
He said the current political situation in the country is unacceptable to him as an observer who is watching the affairs closely or tracking the history.” Such a politics has no place in South Sudan. How can you unite the country now with such a politics?” He asked. 
Government officials could not immediately be reached to comment on Jok’s analysis. 
The Sentry, a group co-founded by actor George Clooney, accused South Sudan’s government in a recent report of funneling cash from the state-owned oil company Nilepet to militias accused of committing atrocities. Share this