indiatoday.in March 22, 2018 
Her parents were hoping that she would sit for her social science re-exam this Friday and get promoted to class 10, like the rest of her classmates. 
Instead, her brother, mother and father reached home to a door bolted from the inside and found her body hanging in the living room. 
“My son tried breaking the door and we could see that the lights inside the house were switched on. The moment we entered the house, we rushed inside but we couldn’t see her in any of the rooms but when we looked near the curtain, we saw her hanging from a dupatta,” said the girl’s father. 
Her brother told Mail Today that his sister faced a daunting re-test schedule which could have scared even an ace student. 
“She had to take three tests with just a day to prepare for each subject. Even her final exams were wrapped up within a week. Above all this, she kept telling us her teachers will fail her irrespective of the hard work she put in her preparation,” claimed the brother, a former student of Ahlcon Public School where his sister also studied. 
The family alleged that she was sexually harassed by two teachers in school, who touched her inappropriately and failed her in the social science and science papers deliberately. 
The class 9 student was slated to appear for three re-tests – in science, social science and mathematics -in March. While her first re-test was on Friday this week, she had to appear for the science test on Monday and Mathematics on Wednesday. 
Her family alleges that this mounting pressure forced their daughter to kill herself. 
“I was not home and I had left from Mandi House when my daughter called me for the last time around 4pm. She knew I had to shop so she checked with me if I had shopped. Since there was no occasion coming up, I told her we will go shopping for her a couple of days later,” the father said. 
Her class teacher’s remarks in her report card held the in high regard. 
“She is an excellent dancer. She shows good manners in classroom. Regular practice, class participation and hard work can help in improving her grades further,” read the remarks. 
The 17-year-old’s mother said that had she taken her daughter out of school she would have saved her daughter’s life. 
“When we saw her worrying because of marks some months back, we offered to shift her to another school or state board. She broke down, saying all her friends are here in Ahlcon and that she doesn’t want to appear for another state’s board exams. I wish I had sent her to another school. I would have at least saved my daughter,” said the girl’s mother. 
“It is an unfortunate incident. Let me make it clear that she had not failed and a re-test for her was scheduled. We will cooperate with the probe agencies,” said Dharmendra Goyal, principal of Ahlcon Public School in Mayur Vihar. 
Denying the family’s allegations of sexual harassment on the girl at the hands of her two teachers, the principal said that such a thing has never happened. 
“Our school is very child-friendly. We have always reached out to our students to help them do well in academics. This happened, perhaps, because the school was following the promotion policies by CBSE,” Goyal added. ALSO READ