by N332 – Driving In Spain · 20/03/2018 
VELOLASER – The most innovative definitive solution for speed control in urban and interurban environments 
CHILD SEAT CHANGES – BLUE LIGHTS – PRIORITY VEHICLES – SPEED LIMITS – LIGHTING – ROUNDABOUTS YOUR QUESTIONS ANSWERED -AND MUCH, MUCH, MORE 
You can read the latest edition of N332 RoadWatch FOR FREE after the introduction below. Or, you can purchase the PDF version and download it to your computer or device. 
Buy PDF Version Now 
Welcome to the latest edition of N332 RoadWatch. 
Easter is upon us and that means one thing in terms of road safety, one of the busiest times on the roads so far. After Christmas and the summer season, Easter is the next main holiday period, as many people choose to take advantage of the breaks from work to travel to coastal and mountainous areas, visiting family and friends, and generally enjoying the seasonal time. 
Add to this the first main influx of foreign tourists into the country, we see the roads getting busy a they are mixing the normal daily traffic with both domestic and international tourists, some a little unaware of their surroundings, others embarking on a completely different driving experience than they are used to. 
Patience, calmness and planning are called for, allowing extra time for whatever journey you might be making, and being aware that other road users around you may not be quite as used to the area as you are. 
At the start of the holiday period we see the flow of traffic heading towards the coast. At the end of the period, they return back inland. In between we see more traffic visiting leisure and retail complexes, and, subject to weather conditions, the beaches. 
In this edition we introduce you to the latest piece of equipment in the fight against unsafe driving, Velolaser, a new, portable speed detector, small enough to be carried on a motorbike, versatile enough to be set up anywhere. 
We also look at the new child seat profiling system, and a look at how to deal with priority vehicles, as well as reassurances about the medical requirements for renewing your driving licence in Spain. 
For now, enjoy this edition and stay safe. 
Read FOR FREE Here Click the box at the bottom right to enter full screen mode. The buy now button is below.