[Vacatures] VICE is looking for Senior Strategist VIRTUE 22-03-2018 06:29:00 | Door: Arjen Westra | hits: 2797 | Tags: Websites 
VICE is a global youth media company and the industry leader in producing and distributing the best online video content in the world. Launched in 1994 as a punk magazine, VICE now operates out of 36 offices globally, and has expanded into a multimedia network, including the world's premier source for original online video, VICE.COM; an international network of digital channels; a television & feature film production studio; a magazine; a record label; and a book-publishing division. 
VICE's digital channels include MUNCHIES, a food channel; VICE News, a dedicated news channel; Noisey, a music discovery channel; Creators, dedicated to the arts and creativity; Motherboard, covering cultural happenings in technology; THUMP, focusing on global dance and electronic music; VICE acquired British fashion publication i-D in 2012 and re-launched i-D's digital presence at i-D.co, a video-driven fashion site In 2013, VICE launched a news-magazine series on HBO titled 'VICE.' The Emmy-nominated series is currently in its second season. 
Our growth is exploding! We take great pride in the work we do and the talented people who bring VICE to life. We're always looking for bright, ambitious and innovative individuals who value a collaborative, open, stimulating and diverse environment. Whether you are an experienced professional or a rising star looking for a place to shine brighter, we would love to hear from you! 


VIRTUE 
VIRTUE Worldwide is VICE’s full-service creative agency that creates cultural value for brands through stories. Leveraging the data and technology of the global VICE editorial powerhouse, VIRTUE Worldwide creates these stories to deliver tangible commercial impact. VIRTUE Worldwide covers research, strategy, creative development, production, content distribution and activation - all under a single roof that is accessible worldwide. Role As a Senior Strategist you’re responsible for bringing VICE’s tenacity in storytelling and commitment to commercial impact to local, European and global clients with best-in-class strategic thinking.Clients come to VIRTUE/VICE for non-traditional solutions, and the work we deliver in return must answer their business challenges with a razor-sharp point of view, backed by real VICE audience insights. 
The senior strategist is critical in leading this charge.You will work with a talented, multidisciplinary team of creatives, strategists and designers. You will report to the Head of Strategy. Tasks • Develop best-in-class strategic recommendations to briefs that range from devising content strategies to full communication programmes to rebranding, from both retained and pitch clients.• Interrogate and reinterpret briefs. Truly get to the core of the task at hand and gather an understanding of the wider commercial, brand and consumer context.• Lead research on briefs to ensure the researched stories are on-strategy and are up to the standards expected from VIRTUE.• Have a deep understand of consumer behaviour and identify emerging consumer trends – both in purchasing and media behaviour.• Work dynamically in team – collaborate with the creative team to ensure the strategic vision is effectively brought to life while brand goals are kept firmly in sight.• Actively work with and contribute to the success of the Virtue team.• Integrate Virtue with other key departments to improve all areas of the briefing and response process.• Ensure that the chosen approach is turned into an effective & platform agnostic distribution strategy. 
Requirements • 4+ years of experience in a media/creative environment (focus on developing brand, campaign and content strategy).• Native Dutch but fluent English.• Familiar with media and content distribution.• Insatiably curious, and a cultural sponge.• Deep knowledge of technological, socio cultural and media trends.• Ability to work on an interdisciplinary team and outside partners. 
Apply for this Job 
Heeft bovenstaande functie je interesse gewekt? Ga dan naar de site van VICE, Senior Strategist VIRTUE en solliciteer.