Mr. Pratt's Patients : Old Applegate, in the stern, just set and looked at me, and Lord James, amidship, waved both arms and kept hollering for help. I took a couple of everlasting big strokes and managed to grab hold of the skiff's rail, close to the stern. Keep a firm hold on the handlebars. A place where animals are held for safety An order that something is to be reserved or delayed, limiting or preventing how it can be dealt with. Senator X placed a hold on the bill, then went to the library and placed a hold on a book. Something reserved or kept . We have a hold here for you. Power over someone or something. 2008 , Christopher Clarke-Milton, Dawn of the Messiah - Book 1 , ↑ISBN , page 199: The Judge accepts the payment, the law no longer has a hold on you, and therefore you are free to walk out of the court a free man or woman. 2013 , Wim Wenders & Mary Zournazi, Inventing Peace: A Dialogue on Perception , ↑ISBN , page 107: War has a hold on our cultural imaginations as an inevitable force, it is peace that has no benefactor. 1982 , Laurence Monroe Klauber & Karen Harvey McClung, Rattlesnakes, Their Habits, Life Histories, and Influence , ↑ISBN , page 48: Despite their seemingly strong hold on life, as indicated by the persistence of movement in decapitation tests, rattlers are relatively frail creatures and are easily killed. The property of maintaining the shape of styled hair . 2004 , Zoe Diana Draelos, Hair Care: An Illustrated Dermatologic Handbook (page 221) Sculpturing gels provide stiffer hold than styling gels, which provide better hold than mousses. ( wrestling ) A position or grip used to control the opponent. He got him in a tight hold and pinned him to the mat. ( exercise (sport) ) An exercise involving holding a position for a set time ( gambling ) The percentage the house wins on a gamble, the house or bookmaker's hold. 2002 , "Reality", “The Scorecard For Bookmakers”, in (Please provide the book title or journal name) ‎ [3] , retrieved 2013-12-18 : The House Hold on the game is 10,000, this is the amount of decision or risk the house wishes to assume. ( gambling ) The wager amount, the total hold . 2012 , Sarah Fortnum, “Melbourne Cup 2012 From The Bookie’s Perspective”, in (Please provide the book title or journal name) ‎ [4] , retrieved 2013-12-18 : As of Monday night the total Melbourne Cup hold was $848,015 ( tennis ) An instance of holding one's service game, as opposed to being broken . The part of an object one is intended to grasp, or anything one can use for grasping with hands or feet. 1898 , J. Meade Falkner , Moonfleet Chapter 4 So I felt my way down the passage back to the vault, and recked not of the darkness, nor of Blackbeard and his crew, if only I could lay my lips to liquor. Thus I groped about the barrels till near the top of the stack my hand struck on the spile of a keg, and drawing it, I got my mouth to the hold . 1995 , Turlough Johnston & Madeleine Halldén, Rock Climbing Basics ↑ISBN , page 86: The beginner will instinctively try to stick his toe straight in in a foot hold , which is very tiring on the calf muscles. A fruit machine feature allowing one or more of the reels to remain fixed while the others spin . 1983 , New Generation Software, Knot in 3D (video game instruction leaflet) A hold facility is available; H holds, and S restarts. 1987 ?, Imagine Software, Legend of Kage (video game instruction leaflet) SCREEN 5 — Perhaps the toughest — going like the clappers sometimes works but generally you'll have to be smarter than that. If things get a little too hectic and you don't even have time to reach the HOLD key, try taking a short rest below the top of the stairs. The queueing system on telephones and similar communication systems which maintains a connection when all lines are busy. 2003 , Daniel Jackson, Paul Fulberg, Sonic Branding: An Essential Guide to the Art and Science of Sonic Branding , Palgrave Macmillan ↑ISBN , page 6 Given that there is an average on-hold time of more than five minutes while enquiries are being dealt with, the telephone hold system provided the best opportunity. 2005 , Lorraine Grubbs-West, Lessons in Loyalty: How Southwest Airlines Does it : an Insider's View , CornerStone Leadership Inst ↑ISBN , page 56 Even the "on-hold" messages on Southwest's telephone system are humorous, ensuring anyone inconvenienced by the hold is entertained. 2012 , Tanner Ezell, Cisco Unified Communications Manager 8: Expert Administration Cookbook , Packt Publishing Ltd ↑ISBN Note. After the device downloads its new configuration file, we can test placing a call on hold and the generic hold music will be heard. ( baseball ) A statistic awarded to a relief pitcher who is not still pitching at the end of the game and who records at least one out and maintains a lead for his team.