♦ This week's news in brief ♦ March 22 - 2018 DABANGA SUDAN Listening to the radio in Sudan 
A compact weekly digest of Dabanga Sudan's highlights of the news from Darfur and Sudan 

♦ Sudan Call meetings conclude in Paris 
March 19 – 2018 PARIS The Sudan Call forces have accused the government of reneging on the African Union High-level Implementation Panel (AUHIP) roadmap agreement and stressed their non-relation to the National Dialogue or the implementation of its outputs. In a statement on Saturday at the conclusion of a series of consultative meetings in Paris they said that the roadmap was based on UN Security Council resolutions No 456 and 539 which called for measures to create a conducive climate of stopping the war and providing freedoms. The forces of the Sudan Call (also referred to as Sudan Appeal) are seeking an equal political process that would bring about a just peace, democracy and citizenship without discrimination. The meeting stressed the need for the Sudanese regime to abide by the procedures and conditions of creating a conducive climate as an input to resolve the political crisis and called on AUHIP to act for the release of the political detainees in the country. On the side-lines of the Sudan Call meetings in Paris, eastern Sudanese political parties and civil society organisations signed a Memorandum of Understanding to form a political umbrella and agree on the basic principles to resolve the issues of the region. The memorandum, signed by the secretary-general of the Beja Congress, the head of the United Popular Front for Liberation and Justice, and a representative of civil society organisations in eastern sudan, called for ensuring the effective and equitable participation of the people of eastern Sudan in power. They also pointed to the challenges of the spread of arms, human trafficking, smuggling, and the indigenisation of El Bedoon in the region. 

♦ Suspected cholera numbers continue to drop in Central Darfur 
March 21 – 2018 NIERTETI Isolation centres in the town of Nierteti and its surrounding villages in Central Darfur continue to receive new cases of acute watery diarrhoea – suspected to be cholera – however medics are cautiously optimistic that the outbreak is past its critical peak. Voluntary work activists reported to Radio Dabanga that on Tuesday the isolation ward in the hospital of Nierteti received four new cases, the centre of Korifal village recorded two cases and Mara one case. One of the sources said nine patients in total were still being being treated in the three centres of Nierteti, Mara and Korifal, but the centre of Turr is empty and that the centre of Kuweila village has only one old case. In spite of numerous independent confirmations (conducted according to World Health Organisation (WHO) standards) that the disease which broke out in Blue Nile State in August 2016 was cholera, the Sudanese authorities and several international organisations still call it ‘acute watery diarrhoea’. The spread of the infectious disease in Sudan last year turned into epidemic proportions . The WHO and the Sudanese Ministry of Health reported in mid-October that the total number of recorded cases reached more than 35,000 people – including 800 related deaths. Doctors of Sudan’s National Epidemiological Corporation reported in early July however, that nearly 24,000 Sudanese had been infected and 940 cholera patients died 
. 
More news from Radio Dabanga: