The Last Sigil - Update Hello everyone,this announcement contains updates about the early access release date, the store page and the changes I've done to the game since Greenlight. EARLY ACCESS Early access is expected to start Thor's Day 22 March 2018 ! Hopefully there will be no delay and in case something happens, I will post an update about it. STORE PAGE The store page is finally up! You can add the game to your wishlist and use the "General Discussions" section to ask any question you want; I will try to answer to you as soon as possible but please keep in mind that I'm the only person working on this game, so my time is limited. STATE OF THE GAME The title is vastly improved compared to the greenlight trailer version and here's a quick summary. NEW STATS Characters base attributes have been changed, they now have 4 innate attributes, strength, endurance, constitution and luck, and their values vary from 1 to 10. The first three influence your guild's power, energy and vitality, while the latter gives you a small chance to double your loot. MYTHIC ITEMS The artifact has been removed and I added a new layer of items called Mythic; these items will be more powerful than the epic ones and in addition they will come with a special effect, such as a chance to deal a deadly hit or apply a bleeding, or a chance to inscribe a rune which grants bonuses while standing on hit, or a chance to curse enemies, or passive bonuses like elemental damage, immunity to CC, etc.There are currently 47 mythic effects, some can appear on every piece of equipment, others only on specific items; in the future more will come, so feel free to post any idea you will have about them. EQUIPMENT CUSTOMIZATION Enchanting and customization have been greatly improved; you can now drop scrolls of enchantments, scrolls of rebirth, scrolls of transmutation, blacksmith hammers and jeweller chisels.Scrolls of Enchantments come in three types, lesser, normal and greater and they increase the attributes and bonuses of an item. Scrolls of Rebirth generate a new item of the same rarity of the one you used them on. Scrolls of Transmutation upgrade a normal item to a random rarity (magic, rare, epic, mythic). Blacksmith Hammers increase the damage or the defense of an item by 1% for each use, up to 10%. Jeweller Chisels add sockets to items in which you can put jewels, you can craft the latters at the forge if you have the necessary materials. As mentioned there are now 10 Jewels which you can craft at the forge, they have fixed bonus types, random bonus values, three rarity (magic, rare and epic) and you can put them inside the sockets of your equipment (1 item = 1 socket = 1 jewel). You can also remove them by using a Jeweller Chisel. BANNERS The Banners are equippable items you can find in containers, treasure chests and as loot by killing enemies. They have attributes bonuses, they come in four rarity (magic, rare, epic, mythic) and they give you an ability to summon them as long as you have one equipped; using the ability will summon the banner which will grants you and/or your minions temporary buffs, like increased damage or immunity to damage. When you use the skill, a cooldown will start and you won't be able to summon the banner again until the cooldown it's finished. PETS You can now find pets! There are currently 10 types in different colors and more will come. A few of them are available from a merchant in the town-hub, the rest are drop by enemies.Like other items they have a level and they come with different rarities (magic, rare, epic, mythic); not all pets are the same, some are more tough, others deal more damage, some are melee, others are ranged.When you equip a pet, it will spawn next to you, follow you around and attack every enemy on sight. To control your pet, there is a "call/unleash pet" ability which lets you call it back to you and set it to passive mode, or unleash it, setting the pet in aggressive mode.Finally each pet has a special attack which will be available to you as an activable skill as soon as you equip a pet. These special attacks are powerful AOE which also apply a crowd control effect to all the enemies hit and like the banners, they come with a cooldown. STATS DISTRIBUTOR You can now assign/remove 10 attributes points per click by holding shift while clicking the relatives buttons; this makes the points distribution easier and faster. GUILD UPGRADES The number of upgrades has been increased to 31 and they now influence many areas of the game, like offence, defence, resource management, magic find, curses, banners, pets and minons.Before, if you wanted to change your build, you had to reset the points and reassign all of them; now there are two buttons which let you increase and decrease the points assigned to each upgrade, making everything easier and quicker. CRAFTING PANEL The panel has been updated. You can now craft 10 different jewels. Recipes missing materials are now colored in red. When you select an equipment recipe, you can read the number of attributes and bonuses the item will have. When you select a jewel recipe, you can read the types and the numbers of bonuses the item will have. HUD The HUD has been updated. The skill bar contains new slots to accomodate the banner and pet abilities, in addition the pet icon will turn red when the pet dies. A buff bar has been added above the health bar. You can now show/hide player/pet/minions/enemies health mini-bar. You can now show/hide player/pet/minions/enemies damage numbers. A world map has been added to show the exterior areas and the presence of waypoints/portals. A zone mini-map has been added with the classic fog of war. AUTO-LOOT You can now loot the nearby items by pressing the auto-loot button; if you have enough space in your inventory, the items will be automatically transferred into your bag. You can also customize which items you want to loot in the Options Panel, for example if you uncheck the "Magic" category, all the magic items will be ignored and remain on the floor. EXTERIORS The Encampment or Town-Hub is now surrounded by procedurally generated exteriors, which you have to explore in order to find the entrances to the dungeons/Sigils. The areas are connected via exits and some of them contain waypoints too, which you can unlock by clicking on them.At the entrance of the first level of each dungeon but the last one, there is a waypoint too, and once unlocked, you can teleport from any other waypoint directly there.Waypoints are linked to the difficulty you play at, so if you switch difficulty, the waypoints will be updated accordingly.The teleport system is still in place and if you are out of combat, you can travel from anywhere in the world to the Encampment/Town-Hub and back whenever you want. ELITE MODS Elite enemies have now a specific damage resistance, a trait and an elite mod; the latter is a special AOE ability which may apply a crowd control effect too and is highly recommended to avoid any contact with them. CROWD CONTROL EFFECTS There are now 4 types of CCs, stun, slow, chill and freeze.As the player, you can apply them automatically by using certain skills, or by equipping a weapon with a CC as a Mythic Effect; if instead you want to use a specific CC at a specific moment, you can use a pet ability.Finally, as mentioned, elite enemies can apply CCs too, so watch out for them!It should be all for this time, thanks! 