BBC slammed for failing its contracting talent over IR35 by Jasmin Swayne 22 March 2018 Category Contracting News 22 March 2018, Comments 0 
Further responses have been emerging from the professional contracting community to revelations that the BBC strong-armed many of its top presenters into working off-payroll via limited companies before leaving them exposed to a systematic HMRC crackdown on their use under new IR35 rules. 
MPs on the Digital, Culture, Media and Sport Committee have this week been receiving evidence on issues surrounding pay and IR35 at the BBC following a large-scale HMRC investigation into the IR35 status of the corporation’s presenters and journalists. 
The hearing comes shortly after one contracting BBC presenter, Christa Ackroyd, hit the headlines by being presented with a tax bill for more than £400,000 after a tribunal ruled her inside IR35. 
The committee has received in-person and written testimonies from a range of BBC journalists, many describing the distress that falling under HMRC IR35 investigations last year had caused. One BBC presenter revealed in an anonymous written statement that she had suffered such mental anguish as a result of being taken to court by HMRC over tax it claimed she owed that she had attempted suicide a matter of days ago. 
The BBC faces accusations that it actively advised journalists to work through limited companies so that it could avoid the necessity of paying National Insurance Contributions. Prior to the introduction of new IR35 rues last April, this advice was also common practice amongst many recruiters, the recruitment news source Recruitment Grapevine states. 
Limited company contractors were assessed for IR35 status at the BBC using HMRC’s controversial online CEST tool, which has been heavily condemned for its inaccuracy. BBC presenters also criticised it in their testimonies. 
Describing critiques of the CEST tool as “entirely accurate”, Andrew Chamberlain of IPSE said, “the CEST tool cannot be relied upon to make correct determinations which is why many organisations feel forced to take a blanket approach – pushing all off-payroll engagements into IR35 unfairly.” 
Meanwhile, Dave Chaplin, founder and CEO of ContractorCalculator (which last year conducted research exposing major inaccuracies in CEST) said: 
“I have a lot of sympathy for all the BBC presenters that have been impacted because they were simply following the BBC’s trusted direction to operate in this way and now they have come unstuck. The BBC needs to step up, hold up its hands and help to put things right.” 
Seb Maley, CEO of Qdos Contractor, the tax advice consultancy for contracting professionals, said: 
“The complex nature of employment status makes it absolutely vital that each working arrangement is assessed on a case by case basis and by experts. From what we’ve heard, it seems The BBC has completely failed to do this.”