Rainmaker VP to Speak at Tribal Casino & Hotel Development Conference Presentation to focus on the tracking mechanisms casinos can use to increase profitability 
ALPHARETTA, GA – The Rainmaker Group (Rainmaker), a leading provider of cloud-based hospitality revenue and profit optimization software, today announced that Angie Dobney, vice president of casino and gaming sales, will be a featured speaker at the 11 th Annual Tribal Casino & Hotel Development Conference. The conference will be held March 26-27 at the Pechanga Resort & Casino in Temecula, Calif. Rainmaker is a gold-level sponsor of the event. 
Dobney will participate in a panel discussion entitled, How Tracking Every Dollar Spent by Your Patrons Not Only Increases Profit but Also Decreases Cost Throughout Your Enterprise . The panel, which will address new technologies that track guests and their preferences, will include topics such as: uncovering additional profit centers in your hotel and casino; getting the right customers into the casino; player loyalty; and how to make player rewards programs desirable to all age groups. 
Dobney, a former Rainmaker customer who joined the company in 2014, brings to her role a user's perspective on technology. Having worked in both manual and automated environments, she knows firsthand the challenges customers face and draws from personal experience to guide her clients in best practices. Her expertise spans the unique challenges related to revenue optimization, and she is a frequent industry speaker. 
Rainmaker offers best-of-breed revenue and profit optimization solutions to hotels, resorts and casinos. Its product suite includes: guestrev® , an intuitive and easy-to-use revenue management solution that analyzes total guest value across a hotel or casino property to forecast and price rooms; grouprev® , an innovative group pricing solution that streamlines the process of responding to group RFPs by analyzing historical data, future demand, and price sensitivity to recommend the best pricing for group business; revcaster® , a powerful rate shopping tool that gives hoteliers access to real-time actionable market data, so that rates can be set against the competitive landscape; and revintel® , an intuitive business intelligence solution that improves day-to-day revenue management by mining various data sets and providing deep insights at a granular level. 
"We are excited to participate in the 11 th Annual Tribal Casino & Hotel Development Conference, both as industry thought leaders and as a gold-level sponsor," said Mike Cowles, chief commercial officer of The Rainmaker Group. "We are deeply committed to the success of our tribal gaming customers, and this meeting is always a great event." 
The Tribal Casino & Hotel Development Conference is dedicated to the design and development of tribal-owned casinos, resorts and hotels. Each year, tribal leaders gather with industry professionals to discuss the most relevant topics in the business, including government legislation, advancements in technology, and the latest trends in renovation and design. The annual conference is produced by Native Nation Events in Ramsey, N.J. 
To sign up for a one-on-one meeting with Rainmaker during the Tribal Casino & Hotel Development Conference, contact Brenna Needham at 470-440-7917 or . 
Contact