Eco hotel for nature enthusiast Yoga hotel 
Whether starting from scratch or transforming the existing well-established business, hotel investments nowadays require being in touch with ever-changing consumers demands and a clear vision. Not that the time of traditional hotels is completely over, but it is easy to notice a growing number of people who prefer staying in hotels that offer more than usual hotel generic experience. Guests seem to look for an experience that goes beyond location, usual hospitality, uniform design or even luxury. Lifestyle hotels are on the big demand since they offer unique and tailored services to a specific type of customers. Times have changed, so today's customers will, most likely, pick a distinctive accommodation that fits their personal taste. Yoga hotels 
It is possible to have a complete Zen experience without visiting an ashram. Aiming at the people who enjoy health and wellness lifestyle, Yoga retreats and hotels are specially designed to offer calming and transformative experience, with a variety of specific services. From two or more yoga classes a day, meditation time, healthy meals and promotion of digital detox, these hotels can be quite luxurious and attractive to the wide number of people who wish to have a quality rest and avoid typical sightseeing. Ecotels 
Eco hotels are the type of accommodation that attracts environmentally friendly customers who follow the principles of green living. Following the basic criteria of ecological sustainability, dependence on the environment and economic return to local communities, these hotels represent environmentally responsible businesses. Growing awareness about ecological issues brings more eco-tourists each season who wish to minimize the impact on the environment even when on vacation. A survey from 2013 confirmed that two third of travelers wish to stay at green hotels . Growing trend that is here to stay. Art hotels 
Artist and art lovers are more likely to stay in designed lodgings that resemble art gallery and even represent work of art itself. Whether displaying great art collection or offering rooms that are designed by popular and rising artists, art hotels attract guests who wish to surround themselves with, elegance and creative vibe, introducing them with renown artists as well as experimental artwork. These hotels vary from affordable to luxurious since a great number of well-established hotels rolled out new brands in some locations that aim for slightly different portfolios . Bike hotels 
Cyclists are very devoted to their passion, so it is no wonder that bike hotels are blooming in the last few decades. Bike-friendly and bike hotels are the type of accommodation that provides access to great rides as well as various bike facilities, from bike cafes to mechanic shops. Usually located near great riding spots, bike hotels offer guided rides, rest and recovery after the long day of cycling as well as repair stands where guests can change tyres or repair any other bike parts. Bike hotels can be very luxurious, including the gym, spa, and many other high-end features since many of them accommodate racing teams and athletes for training. Unusual hotels 
Although lifestyle hotels put the focus on the whole experience instead of a room, unusual hotels are the type of lodgings that put a hotel in the center of an adventure . Some of them have the advantage of fabulous locations where you can admire northern lights or hidden waterfalls, while others provide the possibility of staying in a place built out of ice or salt. Whether staying in a concrete tube, tree house or glass igloo, these hotels offer a unique story and comfortable yet rare experience. Such places attract guests from around the globe. Conclusion 
Hotel owners should keep in mind that after checking out of the hotel, guests may appreciate marble floors and golden taps, but what matters is that they will remember how they felt during their stay. Recollection of past events invokes the sensation and experience imprinted in the memory, so ensure to create the feeling of familiarity and to provide them the opportunity to pursue their interests. The success of lifestyle hotels lies in the fact that people, in this busy world, seldom have the chance to pursue their true cravings, which is exactly what this type of accommodation offers.