“The Making of A Well-Designed Business,” An Amazon Best-Selling Book is Free For One More Day (03/23/2018) Pasadena, CA   
Best Seller Publishing announces the release of LuAnn Nigara’s new book, “ The Making of A Well - Designed Business: Turn Inspiration into Action .” It will be available for free download in the Amazon Kindle Store on March 19 th . 
“The Making of A Well-Designed Business” is no nonsense advice for the entrepreneur who is ready to take action. Gleaned from over 30 years of co-running their family owned business, LuAnn Nigara gives it to you straight. Lessons on business leadership, how to set up business systems and processes, how to find your ideal client and as important, how to attract your ideal client. 
LuAnn has been in your shoes and she understands the challenges you face. LuAnn explains why it is so critical to establish the company mission for your business and how and why you need to gather your team of experts to guide you through your entrepreneurial journey . 
If you are ready to be an entrepreneur or you are struggling to get your small business on a path to profits and success, this is the book for you 
“The Making of A Well-Designed Business” by LuAnn Nigara will be free and available for download on Amazon for 5 days (03/19/2018 – 03/23/2018) at: https://www.amazon.com/dp/B079YLNX2X . 
“The Making of A Well-Designed Business” has a 5.0-star rating on Amazon.com. Here’s what some people are saying: 
“This book is a must-have read for small business owners — not just those within the interior design field. It’s succinct, actionable, and easy to digest. As a new business owner, we can be flooded with information and what LuAnn has done in this book is provide you with a high level, actionable roadmap to help guide you to success, and spur you into action. As a regular podcast listener, I believe she truly has a gift for pulling out the golden nuggets from each guest interview and translating that into clear action for her listeners. She’s done that here in this book for her readers as well. Very happy I purchased!” – Than Buswell 
“Reading ‘A Well-Designed Business’ is like having your best friend sitting next to you on your comfy sofa, giving you the best business advice possible. LuAnn is real, she’s approachable, she’s encouraging, plus she really wants you to succeed. The business insight she shares in the book comes from years of experience and believe me she knows her stuff! But as great as that is, her desire to helps others succeed in business is what takes this book to a deeper level.” – Beth Clark 
For More Information: For more questions or to schedule an interview about this press release please contact us at (626) 765-9750 or email info@bestsellerpublishing.org . 
Best Seller Publishing is a Los Angeles Publishing Company dedicated to helping business owners and entrepreneurs become “the hunted” with their best-selling books. About the Author: LuAnn Nigara is an award winning window treatment specialist and together with her husband and cousin she owns Window Works, which provides custom window treatments and awnings to both retail clientele as well as to the trade. They are located in Livingston NJ, a suburb of NYC but regularly serve the entire Metro area from Philadelphia, to the Hamptons to Connecticut. Window Works exemplifies their tagline, which is Experience Expertise Excellence. In business together for more than 30 years they have designed, created and installed window treatments and awnings for the most discerning clients including celebrities, sports figures, CEO’s and loyal families in their NJ area. Designer clients include prestigious firms such as Sussan Lari Architects in Long Island, Alexandra Angle Interiors in Los Angeles, Anyon Designs in San Francisco, House of Funk in NJ, Thad Hayes and Charles Pavarini in NYC. Their work has been featured in Design NJ and on House Smarts TV. LuAnn has spoken to ASID groups, at Hunter Douglas conferences and is often called on by Design NJ as a resource for articles specializing on window treatments. She is one of the authors featured in Big Bold Business Women of NJ. LuAnn also hosts a 2x weekly podcast called A Well-Designed Business, which features in depth conversations with interior designers and industry professionals on the business of interior design.