DeTe cooperates with Fraunhofer ESK, Hexagon and Nokia on automated driving Thursday 22 March 2018 | 11:08 CET | News 
Deutsche Telekom said it obtained centimeter-accurate cars positioning results during recent automated driving tests conducted with Fraunhofer ESK, Hexagon and Nokia. The tests were conducted on the A9 Digital Test Track. During the tests, the companies achieved a positioning accuracy for vehicles in the range of centimeters, demonstrating the effectiveness of their combined technologies. This is a leap forward as existing available mass market technology provides a positioning accuracy in the range of meters. Bringing this down to centimeter range in a way that qualifies for mass market use is an important prerequisite for future autonomous driving, Deutsche Telekom said in a press release. Key for improving the level of accuracy was the successful integration of various technologies in this live testing environment. 
The digital test track on the A9 is covered by eight eNodeB base stations of Deutsche Telekom’s LTE live network. The test cars traveling on the A9 connected to the network and received the correction data via the radio cell covering their exact position. Multi-access Edge Computing (MEC) technology by Nokia is a key component to enable precise positioning for the mass market. The MEC resources are located in close proximity to Deutsche Telekom’s mobile towers along the A9. They provide the platform and computing power for the application by Hexagon, which requests the regionalised HxGN SmartNet correction data for the respective area covered by each radio cell and disseminates it to the vehicles inside this area via MEC. 
The precise positioning service, HxGN SmartNet, was used to supply regional corrections directly to Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) receivers in the automobile. 
The connectivity platform for precise positioning within the car communication unit (CCU) was designed and integrated by Fraunhofer ESK. 
The performance of the tests was found to be mainly determined by the quality of the GNSS receiver and the positioning algorithm. In a next step, the robustness of these receivers now needs to be optimised, Deutsche Telekom said. The partners will continue the research by extending the drive tests to the entire mobile network and by adding different driving maneuvers and speed levels.  