Comparing Russia to Nazi Germany is ‘disgusting’ – Kremlin on Johnson’s ‘Hitler’ remarks Published time: 22 Mar, 2018 10:34 Edited time: 22 Mar, 2018 16:45 Get short URL © Andrew Parsons / Global Look Press Drawing comparisons between Russia and Nazi Germany is disgusting and unacceptable, the Kremlin has said in response to recent outlandish remarks by Boris Johnson, who likened Russia’s World Cup to Hitler’s 1936 Olympics. 
“This statement is totally disgusting, it is not appropriate for any foreign minister,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. “Undoubtedly, [this remark] is offensive and unacceptable.” 
Johnson recently raised the bar for the UK government’s barrage of accusations against Moscow to a new level. The British foreign minister compared Russia's hosting of this year's World Cup to the 1936 Olympics in Nazi Germany. 
“I think the comparison with 1936 is certainly right. It is an emetic prospect to think of Putin glorifying in this sporting event,” he told a receptive Foreign Affairs Committee on Wednesday. 
The fierce tirade of the UK foreign secretary targeted Russia over the poisoning of 66-year-old Sergei Skripal, a former Russian double agent. He even went so far as to accuse Russian President Vladimir Putin of personally ordering the attack. Johnson said that the A-234 nerve agent (also known as ‘Novichok’) was used “to put a Russian signature on the deed.” 
Moscow has firmly dismissed all such allegations and urged the UK to provide evidence, including samples of the nerve agent, instead of simply producing hysterical accusations. 
Russia has said it is open to working with the UK and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) in relation to the incident. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said that the UK should either back up its claims of Moscow’s involvement in the Skripal incident, or else apologize. 
On Wednesday, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that London is basically trying to disrupt bilateral relations. Britain is “feverishly rushing around the world” and is “cajoling partners to show solidarity with the United Kingdom on this issue without showing any facts,” the top Russian diplomat added. 
Like this story? Share it with a friend!