Home » Music » Stogie T – Stogie vs Black Twitter ft. Nomonde Sky Stogie T – Stogie vs Black Twitter ft. Nomonde Sky March 22, 2018 Downloads Hip Hop Nomonde Sky South Africa Stogie T Stogie T – Stogie vs Black Twitter ft. Nomonde Sky. Source: Stogie T/Twitter Looks like things are getting heated around here as controversial lyricist, Stogie T backs up his recent battle with Black Twitter with a new piece that he titles “Stogie vs Black Twitter.” He features Nomonde Sky in his defense. Just recently, Stogie T had been at the receiving end of serious backlash after revealing he snubbed an aspiring rapper who asked if the veteran could listen to his bars. Tumi Molekane had responded by asking him to get a job. It wouldn’t take long for the bashing to begin; with some Tweeps even using the hastag, #StogieTrash. Even though Stogie T is never far away from the eye of the storm, especially on Twitter, this one seemed louder than most. In his response, the “ By Any Means “ rapper claimed his initial post was strictly based on lines from a new song he was curating and had nothing to do with the perspective fans understood. Well, he holds nothing back to state his side of the story on “Stogie vs Black Twitter;” ably backed up by Nomonde Sky . The duo share opinion and a tag-team of laid-back lyrical genius. Well, saying Stogie T is a controversial figure might be stating the obvious. In fact, he has a knack for bungling his thoughts when expressing them as with the situation with Cassper Nyovest at last year’s SA Hip Hop Awards However, maybe we might try to understand him as HHP recently suggested or not be too quick to read meanings into his utterances as this rejoinder might have now shown. Unfortunately, the emcee doesn’t seem to have gotten the full memo just yet as he still lets the emotion gets the best of him while letting this piece fly for free download. Take “Stogie vs Black Twitter” for a ride and get to listen to Stogie T ‘s side of the story. Just be sure to share your thoughts and opinion in the comments section below. 