Delta to cut 5 analogue channels in May, switch analogue off completely from 20 August Thursday 22 March 2018 | 13:06 CET | News Dutch operator Delta has announced it will stop the analogue signal for TV and radio on 20 August. The company indicated in August that this would happen in the spring, but the process has now been postponed by several months. That said, five analogue channels will be switched off as of 1 May. 
Because of the rapidly growing demand for more digital bandwidth and higher internet speeds, Delta is installing new equipment at 15,000 locations on its network and is moving to full digital TV and radio. 
Delta said in 2017 that it would use the released capacity on its network to provide higher internet speeds. Extra space is being created, the company said. An analogue transmitter uses as much frequency space as three digital channels in HD or six in SD. Analogue TV now accounts for 35 percent of capacity on the network, with digital TV taking 37 percent, for a much larger number of channels than the 29 analogue. Internet accounts for 28 percent of space, but will get all the capacity released when analogue is gone. 
From 1 May, TV channels ARD, ZDF, WDR, BBC 1 and TV 5 Monde will only be available digitally. Customers who still watch analogue will have to make the switch if they want to keep all channels. Delta will inform these customers from 1 May about how they can make the step. From 20 August, there will only be digital. Delta has informed customers about migration many times 
Delta has several times informed customers about their digital possibilities over the past months. Analogue customers will from 22 March get a letter or email about an online tool they can use to get advice on how to switch before 1 May, or about a paper roadmap they can use. Based on their personal situation, customers will be able to use the best solution for them. 
An Allemaal Digitaal-info bus is driving through Zeelandm going to markets and at events in order to provide personal help, Delta said. A 'care menu' has been developed for residents in care institutions and the Allemaal Digitaal Team will come and help them there. Customers who want to take action themselves can also contact one of the fifty Delta dealers established throughout Zeeland. Mini decoder for analogue customers 
For customers who only watch analogue and do not have a suitable (older) TV for digital viewing without a smart card, Delta has had an additional solution since the start of the year. The Zeeland company signed an agreement with Humax for the supply of a mini decoder, a separate receiver for unencrypted DVB-C channels.  