Naval Group Engages KBR for Australia's Future Submarine Facility Design Services Subcontract Naval Group Engages KBR for ... Naval Group Engages KBR for Australia's Future Submarine Facility Design Services Subcontract 
Naval Group has formally signed a Design Services Subcontract (DSSC) with local engineering company, KBR, to assist with the concept design of the proposed Future Submarine (SEA1000) construction yard at the Osborne Naval Shipbuilding precinct in South Australia. 
The submarine construction yard concept design will include the facilities and infrastructure required to construct a fleet of twelve regionally superior Future Submarines for the Royal Australian Navy. 
Through the DSSC, KBR will support Naval Group to deliver the concept design for the Future Submarine yard to the Commonwealth of Australia in July 2018. Related Research on ASDReports.com: Global Undersea Warfare Systems Market - Analysis and Forecast 2017-2021 
"We will be utilising Naval Group's extensive experience building and maintaining nuclear and conventional submarines for the French, Brazilian, Malaysian, Indian and Chilean navies to ensure that the facility is appropriately equipped to build Australia's Future Submarine fleet" said Brent Clark, Interim CEO, Naval Group Australia. 
A team of KBR and Naval Group Australia engineers will undertake design workshops within Australia and France in February 2018 to inform the concept design and facilitate knowledge transfer. The team will draw on Naval Group's international experience as a reference point for Australia's Future Submarine yard. 
"KBR is excited to be providing our expertise to Naval Group for this nationally significant project that will deliver a world-class future submarine facility, a significant component of the infrastructure enabler of Australia's Naval Shipbuilding Plan. Having designed the original Collins submarine facility in South Australia in the 1980's and more recently the Air Warfare Destroyer shipyard, KBR brings extensive local defence infrastructure engineering and program management experience to this important project," said Greg Conlon, KBR President Asia Pacific. 
"We anticipate this contract will employee around 100 South Australians and we look forward to working with Naval Group and the Australian Government to maximize opportunities for local industry," added Conlon. 
Naval Group are committed to the involvement of Australian industry in the Future Submarine Program, recognising that it is of vital importance to the construction and sustainment of the submarine fleet into the future, creating job opportunities across Australia. Source: KBR