US State Department Approves a 2nd Kratos High Performance TUAS for International Marketing US State Department Approves ... US State Department Approves a 2nd Kratos High Performance TUAS for International Marketing 
Kratos Defense & Security Solutions, Inc. (Nasdaq:KTOS), a leading National Security Solutions provider, announced today that it has received U.S. State Department approval to market a second of the Company’s High Performance Jet Tactical Unmanned Aerial Systems to certain North American, European, and Asia Pacific region countries. Kratos had announced that the U.S. State Department had recently approved Kratos Mako tactical UAS for International Marketing. Kratos Mako provides fighter-like performance and has flown in multiple large-scale military exercises and could soon be put into production for combat use. All Kratos Tactical UAS are highly maneuverable unmanned aircraft, capable of carrying and operating weapons and advanced sensor systems and are designed to function as a wingman to manned aircraft as a force multiplier in contested airspace, or be deployed independently or in groups of UAS. 
Kratos works with most of these recently State Department approved nations on other programs, contracts, systems and products across the corporation, including certain existing Kratos High Performance Unmanned Aerial Target Drone customers. Kratos is recognized as being the industry leader in high-performance, low-cost jet aerial target systems that support the U.S. military and foreign ally military customers/users, with its primary customers including the United States Air Force, Navy, and Army. Kratos is currently under contract on multiple high performance jet powered tactical unmanned aerial drone systems. Kratos is an industry leader in the rapid development, demonstration, and fielding of technology leading systems and products for National Security at an affordable cost. Due to competitive and other considerations, no additional information will be provided. 
Steve Fendley, Kratos’ Unmanned Systems Division President, said, “This approval by the U.S. State Department to market a second Kratos tactical UAS in addition to Kratos Mako is representative of the global opportunity for high performance jet powered unmanned systems. Each Kratos tactical UAS incorporates true leading technology, capabilities and performance at an affordable cost. All of Kratos’ UAS are runway independent, RATO/rail launched and parachute recovered, making Kratos systems ideal for distributed strategic and tactical locations worldwide.” Related Research on ASDReports.com: Global Drone Camera Market, Analysis and Forecast 2017-2021 
Eric DeMarco, Kratos’ President and CEO, said, “Over the past several years, consistent with Kratos stated strategic plan, we have made approximately $85 million in investments to develop and field a suite of high performance UAS in which Kratos owns the intellectual property and related data package. These investments are now substantially complete and Kratos is in rate production on multiple separate unmanned aircraft with our current forecast to deliver over 100 jet UAS in 2018. Today’s announcement of U.S. State Department approval for Kratos to market a second of our tactical UAS internationally demonstrates continued successful execution of our business plan to be the global leader in this class of system.” Source: Kratos Defense & Security Solutions Date: Mar 21, 2018