Las Vegas McCarran International Airport renews contract with Rockwell Collins, adopts new passenger technology Las Vegas McCarran ... Las Vegas McCarran International Airport renews contract with Rockwell Collins, adopts new passenger technology 
Building on a 20-year relationship, Las Vegas McCarran International Airport (LAS) has renewed its passenger processing solutions with Rockwell Collins, adopting new passenger technologies that will advance its technological position well into the future. 
“Our team is constantly evaluating the airport’s infrastructure and operations seeking ways to enhance customer service, maximize efficiencies and increase flexibility,” said Samuel Ingalls, assistant director of Aviation over Information Systems for McCarran. “Over the past two decades we have had great success in managing our soaring passenger volume through the implementation of common use processes and other cutting-edge technologies such as those provided by Rockwell Collins.” 
With this contract renewal, Rockwell Collins will refresh 176 common-use self-service kiosks with new units to support the upgrade of Terminal 1, helping McCarran to maintain its position as one of the leading airports in North America. Related Research on ASDReports.com: 
Also included in the renewal is continued support for additional Rockwell supplied airport systems including: ARINC MUSE®: Common-use passenger processing solution to enable multiple airlines to share check-in desks and departure gates. Local departure control system: Standalone check-in and boarding system that simplifies the entire check-in process without sacrificing any of the capabilities agents need. ARINC BagLink™: Baggage messaging server that supports baggage to be sorted and loaded efficiently and accurately. Radio Frequency Identification bag tag support (RFID): RFID bag tags enable much more advanced bag tracking and tracing supporting high levels of read rate accuracy. Self-Boarding Gates: An automated solution that allows passengers to scan a boarding pass and board the aircraft through an automated gate. 
In addition, Rockwell Collins is working with LAS to implement advanced passenger processing systems including: ARINC SelfDrop™: An ongoing trial of automated self-service bag drop including RFID bag tag activation ARINC cMUSE™: A future implementation of the next generation cloud-native common-use passenger processing system designed to provide an affordable and flexible check-in system for airports, reducing implementation and support requirements. 
“Rockwell Collins and LAS work together on a continual basis to ensure our solutions are meeting and exceeding the demands that passenger influx has on its airport operations,” said Tony Chapman, senior director, Airport Systems Marketing and Strategy for Rockwell Collins. “As we look further into the future, the integrated working team will look even closer at how biometrics and other disruptive technologies will enhance the curb-to-curb airport experience.” Source: Rockwell Collins