Supplier News 22 March 2018 Travel Start-Ups Pitch to Industry Investors at EyeforTravel’s 2018 European Start Up Awards The 2018 Start up Awards will take place at the Eyefortravel Europe Summit in The Park Plaza Hotel London this June 4-6. We are pleased to announce our panel of prestigious judges and to invite start-ups to apply to pitch 
London, U.K – The start-ups will pitch their businesses in front of a panel of experienced investors on the 5 th of June. They will be judged on their financial potential. The two best pitches will be chosen to present in front of the 500+ summit attendees, with the winner chosen through a live audience poll of the attendees. Applications will close on May 1. 
The start ups will also be able to network with the attendees of EyeforTravel Europe. These include decision makers from all sectors within the travel industry. Some of the confirmed brands in attendance include Priceline, TUI, NH Hotels, Eurail.com, Trainline, BMI, IHG, Eurostar, Hilton, Sixt, Booking.com, Airbnb and many more. 
"The 2017 Start up Awards were a fantastic opportunity for us to get in front of so many of the industry movers and shakers. The focus, exposure and third party validation these events bring to fast growing businesses like ours are an invaluable step, which accelerates the journey to success." 
Charlie Cadbury, CCO, Lola Tech (2017 winner) The judges for the 2018 awards include: 
Timothy Hentschel, Co-Founder and CEO, HotelPlanner.com Dick Porter, Portfolio Chairman and Investor (founder and former CEO, STA Travel ) Brian Harniman, Managing Director, Brand New Matter Inc George Northcott, Cofounder, Founder's factory Artjom Dashko, Investment Director, Kings Park Capital LLP 
"I honestly believe that the disruptors in the travel scene will be those who can really tap into the latent needs that the market has and deliver a service that beats the traditional suppliers" said Tim Gunstone, MD of EyeforTravel. "For the past 21 years, we have consistently made EyeforTravel Europe the centre of innovation in the travel industry and 2018 is no different, expect to see the disruptive technologies and business models that will change your business". 
All successful start ups receive a subsidised pass to the conference. For more information about the awards and to find out how start-ups can enter, please visit http://events.eyefortravel.com/travel-distribution-summit-europe/awards.php 
Or contact the Conference Director, Leo Langford on the details below: 
Leo Langford | Global Conference Producer EyeforTravel Ltd. (Global) +44 (0)207 375 7158| (USA Toll Free) 1 800 814 3459 ext. 7158 
Contact