Independent hotel, The Durham, elevates revenue strategy with IDeaS’ Continuous Pricing Throwing out the spreadsheets, The Durham Hotel upgrades to automated revenue management system 
MINNEAPOLIS – In July of 2015, The Durham Hotel opened its doors for the first time as an independent hotel property; its historic building previously operated as a local bank for decades. Being in the heart of downtown Durham, NC—amidst a revitalization, increase in market hotel inventory and pricing instability in the market—The Durham Hotel saw the opportunity to change from a manual pricing system to an automated revenue management solution, continuing their efforts to maximize overall revenue opportunities. 
IDeaS Revenue Solutions (IDeaS), the leading provider of revenue management software solutions and advisory services, was an easy choice for The Durham Hotel. Using continuous pricing—one of the flexible pricing options offered by IDeaS' Ideal Pricing , group recommendations and SAS® High Performance Analytics, the hotel knew they found the provider proven to live up to their expectations. 
"We knew that to rise above the competition, The Durham would need to stay on top of the technology," said Craig Shipley, director of sales for The Durham Hotel. "While searching for a company with a robust system, we discovered there was no other provider better than IDeaS." 
The Durham Hotel is a unique, locally owned and operated hotel with 53 guest rooms and a value-centric philosophy. Personalized touches are provided to make any stay delightful, such as locally handmade blankets by Raleigh Denim©, Burt's Bees© in-room gifts, classic continental breakfast and complimentary connectivity. Being familiar with IDeaS' solutions and understanding its competitive advantages, The Durham decided it was time to implement IDeaS G3 Revenue Management System (RMS) to enhance their revenue strategy in a constantly changing market. 
"The landscape and competitiveness in downtown Durham has continued to change, and we wanted to evolve with it," added Shipley. "IDeaS G3 RMS is the best system out there. It has everything we were looking for to help us gain competitive advantage within the market." 
"We appreciate The Durham Hotel's unique qualities of guest personalization and sense of community," said Jane Stampe, managing director at IDeaS. "IDeaS is confident in our advanced analytics and that The Durham Hotel's key performance indicators will offer a clear view into their most important information." 
About The Durham Hotel 
Once the Home Savings & Loans Bank headquarters, is now a mid-century modern, 53 room boutique hotel in the heart of downtown. The Durham is a vibrant destination, inspired by the spirit of its namesake city, and built to serve its community. Locally owned and operated, The Durham is instilled with the energy of its surroundings and is a cultural hub for the vibrant and engaging downtown scene. 
As is evident with its naming, The Durham is a true community amenity and has forged collaborations with many local businesses including custom made blankets by Raleigh Denim, music programming by Durham-based Merge Records, coffee by Counter Culture, Escazu Artisan Chocolates, and minibars stocked with snacks from around North Carolina and overseen by NC Made. 
James Beard Award-winning chef Andrea Reusing offers refined menus at the hotel's bar and restaurant that revive American melting pot and hotel classics, casting them in a modern context. The rooftop and lounge overlooks the city, providing a scenic backdrop for guests to enjoy cocktails and selections from the raw bar while making meaningful connections. 
The Durham pairs value with truly gracious service within a community landmark creating an authentic experience for all to enjoy. To book your stay at The Durham, visit www.thedurham.com . About IDeaS 
With more than 1.6 million rooms priced daily on its advanced systems, IDeaS Revenue Solutions leads the industry with the latest revenue management software solutions and advisory services. Powered by SAS® and with nearly three decades of experience, IDeaS proudly supports over 10,000 clients in 124 countries and is relentless about providing hoteliers with insightful ways to manage the data behind hotel pricing. 
IDeaS empowers clients to build and maintain revenue management cultures—from single entities to world-renowned estates—by focusing on a simple promise: Driving Better Revenue. 
IDeaS has the knowledge, expertise and maturity to build upon proven revenue management principles with next-generation analytics for more user-friendly, insightful and profitable revenue opportunities—not just for rooms, but across the entire hotel enterprise. For more information, visit www.ideas.com .