2018’s Top 10 luxury hotel openings We check out ten of the most exciting hotel openings this year 
Every year brings a swathe of new hotel openings, and 2018 is no different. Some of this year's offerings are in far-flung destinations and offer guests superior quality lodgings with a serious focus on design. We check out ten of the most exciting hotel openings this year. 
Aman Shanghai 
This amazing Aman property involved the relocation of an entire forest and the careful restoration and conservation of some incredible native buildings that date from the Ming and Qing dynasties. Find yourself in a place of unparalleled Chinese history, beauty and nature, but miraculously situated in the middle of downtown Shanghai. 
Six Senses Fiji 
Set to open in April 2018, the new Six Senses Fiji resort promises everything guests have come to love about this very special hotel brand: an idyllic, isolated location, complete serenity and a luxurious setting. Located on the tropical Malolo Island, Six Senses Fiji features 24 private villas that are surrounded by crystal waters and white beaches. Paradise awaits. 
Joali, The Maldives 
This incredible resort in one of the world's most desirable destinations, the Maldives, is an oasis of private beachside villas that are perfect for that once-in-a-lifetime romantic getaway. The design is calming and elegant, using lots of wood and neutral colours to create the ultimate in peaceful vacations. 
Mombo Camp, Botswana 
Mombo Camps and Little Mombo Camps in the Moremi Game Reserve in Botswana are just two of the properties undergoing a massive facelift by Wilderness Safaris. These amazing tent structures offer impressive views out over the wildlife sanctuary, and will be at the forefront of sustainable tourism in the area. 
Wa Ale Island Resort, Burma 
Burma is one of the hottest destinations on earth right now, owing to the fact that for a long time it was off limits to tourists, so now everyone wants to go. This resort is an intimate island retreat located in a protected cove with a pristine beach and stunning rock formations. Experience your own private getaway at this incredible hotel. 
The Datai Langkawi,Malaysia 
The Datai Langkawi in Malaysia is one of 2018's most highly anticipated openings. The refurbishment of this amazing property began in September 2017, but it is expected to open its doors again to the public in July of this year. Surrounded by the lush vegetation of an ancient rainforest and located close to the crystal waters of Andaman Sea, the reopening of the Datai Langkawi will certainly be an event to celebrate. 
Hotel Lutetia , Paris 
The newly renovated Hotel Lutetia in Paris, France, is expected to its doors in spring of this year. The stunning building was originally opened as a place for people who were coming to shop in the high-end department store across the road, owned by the same family, to spend the night. Using the finest materials from all over Europe at the time, the hotel became a Parisian landmark, and the restoration will bring it into the modern era while losing none of the grandeur of the past. 
The Retreat at Blue Lagoon, Iceland 
Venture into the otherworldly beauty of Iceland, one of Europe's most popular destinations. The Retreat at Blue Lagoon is due to open in April, and no doubt guests will be chomping at the bit to get a reservation in the middle of The Blue Lagoon, one of the most visited places on the island. Get exclusive access to the hot springs and marvel at the stark contrast of the turquoise waters to the rugged grey of the rocky landscape. 
Canaves Oia Epitome, Santorini 
Opening in May 2018, this hotel on the Greek island of Santorini will be one for the books. Overlooking the quaint fishing village of Ammoudi, the hotel will benefit from its own private beach, not a common thing on the hilly island. Each of the stunning guest suites will come with its very own private plunge pool that take full advantage of the inimitable Greek sunsets. 
The Hoxton Williamsburg, New York 
This trendy hotel brand is winging its way to the Big Apple. This 175 room hotel will be the first of three to open in the US, with planned projects also happening in Portland and LA. The Brooklyn version is housed in the former building of the Rosenwach Water Tank Company, a typical industrial building commonly seen in Brooklyn. 
More information on hotel openings in 2018 can be found on TOPHOTELPROJECTS , the specialized service provider in the exchange of cutting-edge information of hotel construction in the international hospitality industry. 
Contact