1. Luxury eyewear brand’s new take on Scandi-style Oh My Eyes, Sweden Oh My Eyes, Sweden Oh My Eyes, Sweden 
Sweden – New luxury eyewear brand Oh My Eyes is built on the concept of collaboration. For each collection a new designer will use their background specialism to re-imagine eyewear design. The first range includes six unisex glasses developed by Italian eyewear designer Marco Galleani. 
The Swedish brand aims to challenge the popularity of conventional Scandinavian minimalism by employing references from other design fields to reflect Scandinavian modernism. ‘Being Swedish, we know that Scandinavian fashion is often associated with minimalism and straight silhouettes,’ Jonna Dagliden Hunt, co-founder of Oh My Eyes, tells LS:N Global. ‘But when doing research we found amazing references from Scandinavian modernism, in particular architecture, furniture design, glassware and ceramics.’ 
Alongside the importance of quality design, Oh My Eyes has an inclusive target audience, stating that it is focused on everyone from young urban creatives to Flat-Agers . ‘In our network in Sweden we have lots of cool 50+ friends who share our interests. They love travelling, food and fashion,’ says Dagliden Hunt. 2. Universal Everything imagines new interactive design tools Hype Cycle: Smart Matter by Universal Everything 
London – Design studio Universal Everything’s latest speculative project uses the Gartner Hype Cycle chart – a method of examining past human behaviour to predict the future – to explore human-machine collaboration in the workplace. 
‘On this chart we noticed emerging technologies on the upwards trend that have the potential to transform our working methods over the coming years, including 4D printing, smart dust, augmented reality and machine learning,’ Matt Pyke, creative director, tells LS:N Global. ‘From this, we are directing a series of films suggesting the potential of these possible futures.’ 
The film imagines smart matter – computers fitted with tiny mechanical devices like sensors – as a new interface that could be used by sculptors, automotive designers and architects to create life-size designs that respond in real time. 
As explored in our Immersive Interfaces microtrend, the way that we consume data is no longer constrained to screens. These interactive mechanisms, like those shown in Hype Cycle, open up new possibilities for the work environment and beyond. 3. CPG company Annie’s promotes soil health 
US – Annie’s Homegrown , known for its organic Macaroni and Cheese, has launched a range of limited-edition products to support regenerative farming. This is a proven method that rebuilds soil health through rotating crops and allowing livestock to naturally graze the land. 
Working with farmers in Montana, Annie’s hopes to create a mutually beneficial relationship based on better farming practices. Products that use ingredients from these farms, such as wheat and golden peas, will have a new limited-edition packaging design. The words ‘Soil Matters!’ are on the front as well as the name of the farmer and farm. 
The cause focuses on inspiring consciousness among consumers’ food choices while providing support for local farming communities. We first saw holistic farming systems implemented by Outdoor clothing brand Patagonia in its Wild Buffalo Jerky . For more on Regenerative Consumption, see our microtrend here . Annie’s Homegrown, US 4. Westin Hotels launches sheet recycling programme Project Rise by Westin 
Global – Hotel group Westin has announced the launch of a sustainability programme that recycles hotel bed linen while also providing children in underserved communities with high-quality pyjamas. 
In collaboration with Clean The World, the parties developed a system to collect, process and reweave the hotel’s old linen into new fabric, ensuring the material meets the standards and regulations of child product safety. In five months, the hotel gathered about 30,000 pounds of bed linen to be reproduced into pyjamas for children who are most prone to sleep anxieties. As part of its values, Westin believes in the quality of sleep and suggests that the simple act of putting on pyjamas in a child’s bedtime routine can improve their night cycle. The first 15,000 pairs of pyjamas will be donated by the company. 
The hotel’s programme is the beginning of a shift in the linen market towards greater sustainability. In 2017, Coyuchi launched a subscription service for its luxury bed linens. 5. Slow uptake on using home assistants to make purchases 
While consumers are increasingly shopping in-app on their smartphones , new research from global software company Episerver indicates that they are still reticent to use newer technologies such as voice-activated home assistants and smartwatches to make purchases. 
‘It’s up to brands and retailers to set the tone here and nail down the search experience on these devices to ease customers into shopping with new technologies,’ explains Ed Kennedy, director of digital commerce strategy at Episerver. 6. Thought-starter: Do we need a new global contract for consumer data? 
With General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) legislation set to come into effect in Europe imminently, Rosamund Picton and Kourosh Newman-Zand, co-founders of semiotics company Axis-Mundi , argue that it represents an opportunity for brands to own the conversation on data rights. 
The emergence of colossal global data systems has outpaced analogue security and governance apparatus. In a belated act of redress, the GDPR will come into effect on 25 May 2018. To ensure the free flow of data across European borders, the UK – despite Brexit – will be forced to comply. 
A string of negative media stories affecting Facebook, Uber, Google and other data-controllers in recent years has compounded public perception that digital spaces are unruly and unregulated . 
In response to GDPR, but also to this wider context of mistrust, Facebook COO Sheryl Sandberg announced a Facebook privacy centre. In an online statement, Facebook says the privacy centre will be ‘a new education campaign to help you understand how data is used on Facebook and how you can manage your own data’. 
Read the full Opinion here . Big Bang Data exhibition at Somerset House, London Most Read 