Abstract Background The triglyceride glucose (TyG) index has been suggested as a simple surrogate marker of insulin resistance. However, there are limited data regarding the association between the TyG index and arterial stiffness in adults. Therefore, we evaluated the relationship between the TyG index and arterial stiffness as measured based on brachial ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) in Korean adults. Methods A total of 3587 subjects were enrolled in this study. Anthropometric and cardiovascular risk factors were measured. The TyG index was calculated as ln[fasting triglycerides(mg/dl) × fasting glucose(mg/dl)/2], and the insulin resistance index of homeostasis model assessment (HOMA-IR) was estimated. Arterial stiffness was determined by measuring baPWV. Results The subjects were stratified into four groups based on the TyG index. There were significant differences in cardiovascular parameters among the groups; the mean baPWV increased significantly with increasing TyG index. According to the logistic regression analysis after adjusting for multiple risk factors, the odds ratio (95% CI) for increased baPWV (> 75th percentile) for the highest and lowest quartiles of the TyG index was 2.92 (1.92–4.44) in men and 1.84 (1.15–2.96) in women, and the odds ratio for increased baPWV for the highest and lowest quartiles of the HOMA-IR was 1.80 (1.17–2.78) in men and 1.46 (1.06–2.47) in women, respectively. Conclusion The TyG index is more independently associated with increased arterial stiffness than HOMA-IR in Korean adults. Keywords Triglyceride glucose index Arterial stiffness Pulse wave velocity Insulin resistance Background Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of death worldwide [ 1 ]. In particular, arterial stiffness as measured by brachial–ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) has been established as an independent predictor of not only cardiovascular events but also cardiovascular mortality [ 2 ]. Insulin resistance (IR) is one of the most important risk factors for CVD [ 3 ]. IR is associated with obesity, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, all of which predispose individuals to atherosclerosis and CVD [ 4 ]. Indeed, previous studies have demonstrated an independent association between IR and cardiovascular events [ 5 , 6 ]. Many recent studies have shown that the triglyceride glucose (TyG) index is associated with IR, as assessed by hyperinsulinemic euglycemic clamp testing and HOMA-IR. Thus, the TyG index has been proposed as a reliable and simple surrogate marker of IR [ 7 – 10 ]. Consistent with these data, there is growing evidence to suggest that the TyG index is associated with cardiovascular disease [ 11 – 13 ]. However, few studies have examined the relationship between the TyG index and subclinical atherosclerosis [ 11 , 14 , 15 ]. Moreover, to the best of our knowledge, there has to date only been one study, which was performed in a small population of women, to investigate the relationship between the TyG index and arterial stiffness [ 16 ]. Therefore, in the present study, we investigated the relationship between the TyG index and arterial stiffness and compared the data with that of HOMA-IR in Korean adults. Methods Study population The study population consisted of 5989 Korean subjects who participated in a comprehensive health examination as part of a self-referred health checkup program at the Gangnam Severance Hospital Health Promotion Center from January 2008 to February 2015. The exclusion criteria of this study were: subjects with elevated triglyceride levels (> 400 mg/dl) and subjects with any history of malignancy, acute inflammatory disease, infectious disease, or renal disease. We also excluded subjects with a history of hypertension, angina, myocardial infarction, cerebrovascular accident, or an ankle–brachial index (ABI) < 0.90. Subjects taking statins or triglyceride-lowering medications (fenofibrate or omega-3) were also excluded. In addition, we excluded men and women with a history of alcohol consumption in excess of 30 and 20 g/day, respectively. After applying the exclusion criteria, a total of 3587 subjects were enrolled in our final analysis. The study protocol was approved by the Institutional Review Board of Yonsei University College of Medicine. Clinical characteristics We measured the height and weight of each study participant and calculated the body mass index (BMI, kg/m 2 ). Lifestyle information, personal medical history of acute and chronic illnesses, and medication history were collected using a standard questionnaire. Systolic and diastolic blood pressures (SBP, DBP) were measured by experienced technicians using an automated blood pressure (BP) monitor (HEM-7080IC; Omron Healthcare, Lake Forest, IL, USA) after a 5-min rest period with the patient’s arm placed at heart level. The diagnosis of diabetes mellitus was based on a previous history of diabetes or the ADA’s diagnostic guidelines. Hypertension was defined as systolic and/or diastolic blood pressures > 140/90 mmHg or the current use of an antihypertensive medication. Current smokers were defined as having smoked cigarettes regularly over the previous 6 months. Biochemical parameters Blood samples were obtained from all subjects after 8 h of fasting. Samples were immediately centrifuged, and the serum samples were stored at − 70 °C until analysis. The fasting plasma glucose (FPG), total cholesterol (TC), high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C), and triglycerides (TG) were determined using enzymatic methods with a Hitachi 7600–120 automated chemistry analyzer (Hitachi, Tokyo, Japan). Low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL-C) was calculated according to the Friedewald formula. The TyG index was calculated as ln[fasting triglycerides (mg/dl) × fasting glucose (mg/dl)/2] [ 7 ]. The fasting serum insulin level was determined by chemiluminescence with an RIA kit (Daiichi, Japan). Insulin resistance was estimated using the homeostasis model assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) index calculated as fasting insulin (μU/mL) × fasting plasma glucose (mmol/L)/22.5. Pulse wave velocity Arterial stiffness was measured using an automatic plethysmographic instrument (VP-1000; Colin, Komaki, Japan) as previously described [ 17 ]. Briefly, electrodes were placed on both wrists, and cuffs were wrapped around both the upper arms and ankles. After simultaneous measurement of blood pressure and waveforms in all four limbs, the time interval between the brachial and ankle waveforms (ΔTba) was determined. The distance between the brachium and the ankle (La − Lb) was estimated automatically according to the subject’s height. After these data were collected, baPWV was calculated using the following equation: baPWV = (La − Lb)/ΔTba (in cm/s). Both baPWV values were measured after allowing the patient to rest in a supine position for at least 5 min. The mean of the right and left baPWV was used as a marker of arterial stiffness. Statistical analysis Continuous variables with normal distributions were expressed as the mean ± standard deviation (SD), whereas continuous variables with skewed distributions were expressed as the medians with interquartile ranges and were log transformed for analysis. Intergroup comparisons were performed using ANOVA. Chi square tests were used to compare categorical variables with percentages. Age-adjusted baPWV means and standard errors were calculated using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) according to TyG quartiles. The relationships between the baPWV and various clinical parameters were examined using Pearson’s correlation. The odds ratios (OR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI) for high PWVs were estimated by multivariate logistic regression analysis after adjusting for confounding variables across TyG index and HOMA-IR quartiles. Covariates in the multivariable model, which were chosen for their clinical importance, as well as statistical significance, were age, SBP, BMI, LDL-C, HDL-C, diabetes mellitus, and menopause in women. Because an absolute cut-off value of normal baPWV was not available, high baPWV was arbitrarily defined as a value greater than the cut-off level between the third and fourth quartiles (> 75th percentile), which was 1437.5 cm/s for men and 1411.5 cm/s for women. All statistical analyses were performed using SPSS for Windows 23.0 (SPSS Inc., Chicago, IL, USA). P values less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant. Results Baseline characteristics Table 1 shows the clinical and laboratory characteristics of the study population. Subjects were stratified into four groups based on their TyG index levels. Significant differences in metabolic parameters were observed among the groups. SBP, DBP, BMI, FPG, TC, TG, LDL-C, and HOMA-IR were all positively associated with the TyG index, while HDL-C was negatively associated with the TyG index. In addition, smoking status and the prevalence of diabetes were positively associated with TyG index quartiles. Table 1 Clinical characteristics of the study population according to TyG index