21 March 2018, 20:59 "Elk" bloc is on verge of split due to disagreements on protest methods 
The political forces making up the "Elk" bloc have failed to draft any unified strategy against a possible nomination of Serzh Sargsyan as Prime Minister, Nikol Pashinyan , the head of the "Elk" faction in the Parliament and the leader of the "Civil Agreement" Party, told the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent. 
According to Mr Pashinyan, the "Enlightened Armenia" Party, in particular, has not supported the tactics of street struggle; however, its partners in the b loc have agreed that each political force has the right to independently decide and choose its own strategy of struggle. 
The disagreements in the "Elk" bloc may lead to its split, but the political forces that make it will try to avoid it, Grant Mikaelyan , a political analyst and a researcher at the Caucasus Institute, told the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent, noting that initially the "Elk" bloc was aimed to get into the Parliament. A split may negatively affect the political future of each of the bloc members, since it was the consolidation of three opposition forces that had attracted the electorate. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Tigran Petrosyan ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Armenia; South Caucasus All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY