  Essential training for wood machine operatives Daltons Wadkin helps Laing O’Rourke achieve higher skill and safety levels.   
Operating woodworking machinery can be dangerous. The Health and Safety Executive (HSE) states that poor supervision and inadequate training are two of the main causes of accidents in the woodworking industry. 
The Daltons Wadkin Red Team delivers site-based courses across the UK for novice learners and experienced operators. It is important to remember the law, as per the Provision and Use of Work Equipment Regulations (PUWER 98), requires that all workers must receive adequate training, including refresher training. 
The Red Team provides woodworking machinery training to international engineering enterprise, Laing O’Rourke’s Explore Manufacturing business at Explore Industrial Park in Steetley, Nottinghamshire, ensuring its woodworking technicians receive certificated operator training and appropriate awareness of Health and Safety issues. 
The business manufactures precast concrete components for construction projects across the UK, with an in-house joinery shop used to insert moulds into products to leave space for window installations. The workshop uses a range of classical type woodworking machinery including a combination planer thicknesser, sliding table panel saw, radial arm crosscut, bandsaw and disc sander. 
“We are now one of the largest training organisations in the UK specialising in woodworking machinery,” comments Daltons Wadkin director Alex Dalton. 
“Each of our trainers is a time-served machinist, with decades of experience in the industry. Coupled with teaching and assessment qualifications, they are able to effectively deliver relevant ‘hands on’ training for machine operators whether novice or experienced.” 
Daltons Wadkin has a policy of continual improvement in all its operations, not least operator training. Working with PIABC, an HSE-recognised professional awarding body, the company has been certified as an approved quality assured centre for woodworking machine operator training. 
Often training is carried out at customers’ premises using their own machines. When production demands can’t allow machines to be down for training purposes, Daltons Wadkin offers its own dedicated in-house facility. The purpose-built workshop comprises over a dozen machine types from bandsaws, sawbenches and planers to automatic crosscuts, moulders and edgebanders. 
In addition to woodworking machine training, Daltons Wadkin also offers certificated courses in supervisor, abrasive wheel and portable power tool training. 
For expert advice on training requirements, contact a member of the Daltons Wadkin team. 
0115 986 5201