  Significant developments at Masterwood   
Masterwood has been producing woodworking machines for over 50 years, helping the furniture and joinery industry with its passion and professionalism. 
The Masterwood brand was born in 1990 out of the merger of two companies that wrote the history of our industry: Muti, a leader in the production of oscillating chisel mortising machines, and Zangheri & Boschetti, a specialist in the production of automatic multi boring machines. Under the new moniker, the dedicated development and building of CNC machinery has flourished in recent years. 
The synergy of experience and know-how brought in by both partners soon led Masterwood to become one of the reference companies, producing numeric control machining centres for both panels and solid wood production – exporting more than 80% of its production to all six continents of the world. 
Following extensive negotiations Masterwood Spa is announcing a new partnership with a leading Chinese woodworking machine manufacturer, Guangzhou KDT Machinery Co . 
The Masterwood factory 
All the Masterwood ranges of machines will continue to be designed and built at the Italian facilities and Masterwood remains an Italian company. 
The company will still be using its engineering plant and parts from leading suppliers around the world – Beckhoff, Yaskawa, HSD, THK, and Schmalz. 
The new partnership will allow Masterwood to sell its products into the Chinese market with the help of KDT. Investment into the Masterwood Group will allow it to develop new technologies 
Work has already started at the Rimini site where a large unit is being added to the current manufacturing works; this will give greater space for producing not just the standard CNC machines, but the growing demand on special production machines, many of which are with automated feeds and are often designed and built to suit a customer’s bespoke manufacturing requirements. 
The new agreement retains Giancarlo Muti as the company CEO and Matteo Muti as CFO. 
“Masterwood’s DNA does not change,”explains Giancarlo Muti, “the future aim will remain to design and produce a highly technological product leveraging on quality, customisation and ‘Made in Italy’. Our first thought was to keep the employment and the Italian technology.” 
“We believe this is great news for everyone connected to Masterwood, our staff and customers around the world, as it will allow us to keep them busy and support all their manufacturing requirements now, and for the future,” he stated. 
Matteo Muti, CFO at Masterwood Spa, says: 
“This operation gives us the opportunity to reinforce our international dimension and compete more efficiently with the major players. 
“This partnership will greatly facilitate us, not only in the markets where we are present today but in the potentially huge market of South East Asia exploiting the synergy derived by the product range.” 
Further developments are already under way regarding new machines, with specials soon for door frame and window production markets, plus the ongoing software developments that makes Masterwood stand out in the market by supplying not just the machines, but a full range of software solutions to cover panel and solid timber work. 
Developments continue with Masterwood’s own software house – Tecnos – and other leading software companies that are closely connected. 
A busy year for Masterwood is already under way following exhibitions in Lyon and Valencia during February along with an open house”for all the Italian dealers. 
Ahead are the key trade shows of Holz-Handwerk (Nuremberg), Xylexpo (Milan), Drema (Poznan), Awisa (Sydney), Formobile (Sao Paulo), BIFE (Bucharest), W Exhibition (Birmingham), Tuyap (Istanbul), Lesdrevmash (Moscow), and Prowood (Ghent).