SHARE Late Sheikh Adam Abdullahi El-Ilory 
President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, Hon. Justice M. A. Belgore, among others, are expected at the week-long centenary celebrations of the life, times and works of Sheik Adam Abdullahi El-Ilory, founder of foremost Arabic and Islamic Centre known as Markaz. 
The New Telegraph newspaper reports that this announcement was made at a briefing attended by As-Sheik Habeebulahi Adam Al-Ilory; president of Markaz Alumin Association, Dr. Yusuph K. Jumah and Professors Yusuf Lanre Badmus of Kwara State University and Hamza Abdur-Raheem, among others. Sheikh Habeebullah Adam speaking at the press briefing. 
Badmus said: “The centenary celebrations of El-Ilory will come up between April 15 and 21, 2018, programme of activities will include colloquium, academic paper presentations, short Arabic drama presentation as well as recognition and meritorious service awards to deserving Nigerians as well as non-Nigerians for their outstanding roles in advancing the course of Arabic and Islamic scholarship for which El-Ilory lived and continues to live on.” 
He said the Sultan of Sokoto who is also the President General of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar; Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari; Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi; Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi Lamido Sanusi, governors of Ogun, Lagos and Kwara state as well as other guests from Benin were also expected at the event. 
On the respected reformer who died 26 years ago, Badmus said: “It is very interesting to note that while Sheik Uthman bn Fodio, a great religious reformer, was born on April 20, 1817, El-Ilory was born 100 hundred years later precisely on April 17, 1917 to continue the reform agenda of the former. 
“The climax of the celebration will be the formal opening ceremony which will come up on Monday April 16, 2018 in the auditorium of the University of Lagos. Very eminent and distinguished guests are expected on the occasion.” 
Speakers at the event, where guests from Benin Republic, Cote d’Ivoire, Egypt, Morocco and other parts of the Arab world are also expected, include two alumni of Markaz, the Registrar of the Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof. Ishaq Oloyede and Prof. Rasaq Deremi Abubakar, former Vice Chancellor of Al-Hikmah University Ilorin and current Commissioner, Public Complaints Commission in Osun State. 
The Institute of Arabic and Islamic training Center, Morkaz, Agege, lagos, is a private, non-profit, academic, Islamic and Arabic Training center, concerned with general training of Islamic and Arabic studies. 
The Institute was established in Abeokuta, Nigeria in the year 1952 and which was later moved to Lagos, its present location by the then founder Late SHEICK Adam Abdulahi El-IIory in 1954. It is independent of local politics, party orientations and ideological biases. 
It is an intellectual Training Center working from an Islamic perspective to train, promote and support research projects, organize intellectual and training lectures. 
