Home / policy / “Nord stream-2” will not save Gazprom from the Ukrainian transit “Nord stream-2” will not save Gazprom from the Ukrainian transit 5 hours ago policy 4 Views 
“Gazprom” will not be able to abandon Ukrainian transit route after the commissioning of the pipeline “Nord stream-2”. Still, at least throughout 2020, the Russian holding will have to use the Ukrainian gas transportation system for supplies of fuel to Europe. 
The reason for this, according to the newspaper “Kommersant”, is that German gas pipeline EUGAL will be fully ready for operation only by the end of 2020, and “Nord stream-2” will work the end of 2019. For 2020 on EUGAL will involve only one of the two threads. 
The pipeline will run from the Baltic sea to the German border with the Czech Republic. Gascade, which is owned by Gazprom and Wintershall joint venture WIGA will receive 50.5% of the project EUGAL; the other parties to the agreement, among which the German Fluxys Deutschland, Gasunie Deutschland Transport Services Ontras Gastransport — 16.5 per cent. The partners agreed that Gascade will lead the process of construction of the pipeline and operate it. See also: Tennis in Ukrainian, Dolgopolov sheathed racket in Washington 
“The second string will be built in stages at the same time as the first, but the construction will be finished only a year after the completion of the first line”, – said the representative of Gascade. Then the power of EUGAL will exceed 30 billion cubic meters per year, and in 2019 it will be about 21 billion cubic meters per year. 
While 9.9 billion cubic meters per year will get East Germany (Gaspool area of the company), and another 2.7 billion at an existing natural gas pipeline Nel will go to the Netherlands. Thus in the first year of operation, “Nord stream-2” will not be able to pump more than 34 billion cubic meters of project 55 billion cubic meters. See also: Should have seen this coming: the shipbuilding industry of the Crimea is emerging from the shadows 
The remaining volumes Willy nilly will have to put on the gas transportation system of Ukraine. But even when the second string EUGAL will come into operation, this does not mean that the need for Ukrainian transit will disappear. According to the Deputy General Director for gas projects of national energy security Fund Alexei Grivach, “Nord stream-2” and “Turkish stream” can not cope with the growing demand for Russian gas in Europe. 
“This will be the subject of negotiations in parallel with the process of terminating existing contracts between “Gazprom” and “Naftogaz” in the new proceedings in international arbitration. The volume will be negotiable and depend including European consumers”, — said Grivach. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share