Supplier News 22 March 2018 Beekeeper to Showcase Hospitality’s ‘Most Innovative Technology’ at AAHOA Convention Award-winning digital workplace app that connects desk and non-desk hotel employees across locations and departments in real time via mobile or desktop will be on display in Booth #1075 
SAN FRANCISCO, CA -- Next week members of the Asian American Hotel Owners Assn. can experience hospitality's "most innovative technology" at the AAHOA Annual Convention & Trade Show, to be held March 27 to 30 at the Gaylord National Resort & Convention Center in National Harbor, Md. The Beekeeper digital workforce platform, considered to be the best employee app in the industry, will be on display in Booth #1075. With Beekeeper, hoteliers can exchange information, share property updates, and communicate best practices with front- and back-of-house hotel employees who don't sit at a desk or have a company email address. Beekeeper was honored with the 2018 TechOvation Award by Hospitality Technology Next Generation (HTNG) earlier this month. 
"We are eager to introduce Beekeeper to AAHOA members at this important event," said Corey McCarthy, Beekeeper VP of Global Marketing. "We understand that most hotel employees don't have traditional desk jobs. Because they don't have a work email, they rely on bulletin boards for internal communications. While this system is okay, it doesn't resonate well with today's employees, especially Millennials who prefer to send and receive information digitally. Beekeeper connects colleagues across locations and departments in real time via mobile or desktop devices, and it features an intelligent analytics dashboard to help hotels improve internal communication and streamline business processes. 
"Beekeeper also links non-desk workers with a hotel's operational systems, such as payroll, scheduling, file sharing, task management and others," she said. "This gives staff a sense of belonging and trust . . . it increases engagement and loyalty . . . and it ultimately translates into better individual and team performances. We encourage anyone who wanting to digitize their workforce communication to visit the Beekeeper booth. We'll show attendees how they can turn employee satisfaction into guest satisfaction." With Beekeeper, hoteliers can: See what's happening throughout the day at their hotel and read what's happening in the company. Keep all team members aligned and unified by sharing information that is necessary for staff to do their jobs. Use the Survey feature to poll employees on their satisfaction or request input. Communicate with team members during a crisis or while a property is closed. Onboard new team members and engage with them even before they start on their first day. Update staff on the status of engineering or housekeeping projects. 
"Our customers often tell us that their favorite feature of Beekeeper is its accessibility," McCarthy said. "Information can be accessed on a tablet, a smartphone, or a computer. Some hotels even have a communication monitor in their employee dining rooms so workers can see what's going on while they're having their breaks. A great employee experience will always translate to a great guest experience." 
Beekeeper joined the Asian American Hotel Owners Association (AAHOA) as an Allied Member in 2017. 
To preschedule a meeting with Beekeeper at the AAHOA Annual Convention & Tradeshow, please email Corey McCarthy at or request a time at www.beekeeper.io/aahoa2018. 
Contact