Supplier News 22 March 2018 dormakaba White Paper: Steps to Deliver a 21st Century Mobile Access Experience White Paper Details What is Behind The Click When a Guest Opens Their Hotel Room Door and How to Deliver a Perfect Mobile Access Experience 
MONTREAL, QC, CANADA – dormakaba, the provider of Saflok™ and Ilco™ electronic locks , announced its new white paper detailing why mobile access is becoming essential to property success and how operators can deliver it. The paper, "Guests Demand a 21st Century Stay: Secure Mobile Access Unlocks Your Competitive Edge," reviews the accelerating mobile use in travel, and explains what goes into seamless property mobile access control system delivery. Click here to download the mobile access control system implementation white paper. For more information on dormakaba electronic hotel locks, click here . 
"Sixty percent of travelers say they are more likely to stay at a hotel that allows them to use smartphones to check in and out remotely and unlock rooms," said Stephen Pollack dormakaba vice president marketing. "Convenience and functionality win the loyalty of the 21st century traveler. Our white paper explains how mobile access control systems work, what to look for in a secure mobile access system, and how to implement it." Your competition already has a mobile strategy 
Secure mobile access is now a must for hotel operators. Twenty six percent of properties offer mobile access today, an additional 23 percent plan to implement it in the future. "Competition and guest demand are powering the trend to include mobile access in hotel apps," said Pollack. "But mobile access requires more than a smartphone app and digital door lock." dormakaba's white paper explains why security is essential, and describes the step-by-step processes behind a secure mobile access solution. 
dormakaba's mobile access solution is a secure, end-to-end mobile credential application utilizing Bluetooth Low energy (BLE). It integrates seamlessly with brand loyalty apps and chain technology infrastructures, as well as third party mobile integrator apps. Cloud-based dormakaba mobile access enables guests to open their room doors with their own mobile phone or device, including the Apple Watch, as a flexible alternative to a classic RFID keycard. dormakaba RFID locks manufactured today are compatible with BLE, iOS and Android mobile technology 
Click here to download the mobile access implementation white paper. About dormakaba 
dormakaba is one of the top three companies in the global market for access and security solutions. With strong brands such as Dorma and Kaba in its portfolio, it is a single source for products, solutions, and services related to doors and secure access to buildings and rooms. With around 16,000 employees and numerous cooperation partners, the company is active in over 130 countries. dormakaba is headquartered in Rümlang (Zurich/Switzerland) and generates an annual turnover of over CHF 2 billion. 
SIX Swiss Exchange: DOKA (formerly: KABN / KABNE) Further information at https://www.dormakaba.com/us-en/solutions/products/lodging-systems/lodging-systems-290050 
Contact