Sarcos teams up with leading industrial innovators on exoskeletons March 22, 2018 by Anna 
Sarcos Robotics has formed an industry focused Exoskeleton Technical Advisory Group (“X-TAG”) comprised of executives from leading companies in industrial manufacturing, automotive, aviation and aerospace, construction, oil & gas, and utilities. 
The X-TAG is working with Sarcos and industry groups to identify key performance and safety requirements necessary to bring powered and quasi-passive, full-body industrial exoskeleton systems to the work force. 
Sarcos specializes in the production of robots that combine human intelligence and dexterity with the strength, endurance and precision of machines to improve efficiency and reduce occupational injuries for complex or non-repetitive tasks. 
Dedicated to driving the development of powered, full-body exoskeletons that address the growing need for a safer, more efficient workforce across a myriad of industries, the X-TAG members include senior executives from Bechtel, BMW, Caterpillar, Delta Air Lines, GE, Schlumberger, Würth Industrie Service GmbH & Co. KG, and other leading companies representing aviation, construction, heavy machinery and utilities. 
“GE is investing in emerging technologies such as exoskeletons and human-assisted wearables to prevent injuries and unplanned downtime,” said Sam Murley, GE EHS Digital Acceleration Leader. 
“We look forward to the outcomes of the X-TAG and the use of the Guardian XO to increase safety and simplify environment, health and safety programs across the company.” 
Gil West, COO – Delta Air Lines, said “This X-TAG is an innovative opportunity to think about how fitting our employees with wearable robotics can build on our strong personal safety culture and further protect our people from injury by giving them an additional layer of strength and protection.” 
“The opportunity to deploy powered, full-body industrial exoskeletons that reduce injury and dramatically enhance human strength, endurance and precision is more proximate than most people realize,” said Ben Wolff, chairman and CEO of Sarcos Robotics. 
“Top innovators, thought leaders and industry experts across key industries have joined with us to create the safest, most productive and cost-effective workforce in the world and provide us with industry and safety requirements guidance to ensure we meet industry needs in advance of commercial deployment.” 
Leveraging more than 25 years of robotics research and development, Sarcos’ Guardian exoskeletons combine the strength and precision of machines with human intelligence, instincts and reflexes to enable robots to perform complex or non-repetitive tasks. 
These exoskeleton systems are energetically autonomous and highly dexterous, capable of extended work sessions in a variety of different work environments. Intuitive to operate and easy to put on and take off, the exoskeleton operator bears none of the weight of the robot or the payload carried by the robot. 
Sarcos Guardian™ GT system, the largest in its line of exoskeletons systems, can be custom ordered to meet customer’s specific requirements and needs. The Guardian XO® and XO® MAX robots are in development and are expected to be commercially available in late 2019.