Appointed Regional Vice President of Operations At Denihan Hospitality in New York - NY , USA View Gul Goknar Turkmenoglu 's LinkedIn Profile 
Denihan Hospitality, a full-service hospitality company focusing on developing, owning, managing and franchising boutique luxury and lifestyle hotels, is pleased to announce the promotion of Gul Goknar Turkmenoglu to Regional Vice President of Operations. Ms. Goknar Turkmenoglu will also continue to serve as General Manager of The Benjamin, the Company's 209-room luxury boutique hotel located in Midtown Manhattan. 
In her new position, Ms. Goknar Turkmenoglu will oversee Denihan's growing operations team including all general managers. She is also responsible for implementing proven strategies and best practices to further elevate the guest experience, improve operational efficiency and increase profitability across the Company's brand portfolio. A native of Turkey, Ms. Goknar Turkmenoglu has more 25 years of luxury and lifestyle management experience at both domestic and international hotels. 
Ms. Goknar Turkmenoglu's promotion continues the strategic expansion of Denihan's well-rounded senior team. In February, the Company announced the appointments of seasoned hospitality executives John Chan as Senior Vice President of Development and Garine Ferejian Mayo as Senior Vice President of Market Strategy and Revenue Management. The depth of institutional knowledge possessed by these individuals will be instrumental in advancing the Company's ambitious plan to grow its fee-based services business. 
Prior to joining Denihan in 2016 as General Manager of The Benjamin, Ms. Goknar Turkmenoglu served as Assistant General Manager of the Hudson New York. Prior to that, she was Assistant General Manager of The Lexington Hotel NYC and Hotel Manager for ONE UN New York. In 2006, Ms. Goknar Turkmenoglu relocated from Egypt to join the leadership team at the Waldorf Astoria New York where she spent over 6 years holding several management roles. She holds a Bachelor of Arts in Tourism and Management from Cukurova University and a Master of Business Administration from New York University Leonard N. Stern School of Business.