Share on: google + There’s been an abundance of new football shirts released this week from the likes of Nike and adidas, as the international break begins and the World Cup nears. As such, this edition of LAFTBT is dedicated to some of the World Cup shirts of yesteryear. In no particular order, here are 5 of our favourites: Denmark 1986 Let’s get an obvious one out of the way early, as Hummel’s most famous kit is a true cult classic among football fans. The Danish brand supplied the Danish national team with this pinstriped beauty for the 1986 World Cup in Spain, and players like the Laudrups wore it well. So well, it remains as one of the most coveted and recreated football shirts of all time. England 1990 For most England fans, 1966 was just too long ago, and as a result, the heroic team of 1990 stand as the most successful team that the Three Lions have sent to a World Cup in recent memory. Even that was almost thirty years ago, but thanks to likes of Palace and the British hipster scene, this shirt has survived the test of time. Truly iconic for it’s pattern and Umbro detailings, this shirt is as famous as Gazza’s tears in the semi-final defeat to Germany. Holland 1970 One of the first times that those famous three-stripes decorated the World Cup, was when this famous Oranje team walked out in adidas strips. They are regarded as the best team to never win the World Cup, led by the late, great Johan Cruyff, playing total football from the first game to the last. A defeat to Germany in the final spoiled a perfect tournament, which they played in a perfect kit. Legendary stuff. France 98 This shirt is as synonymous with France as good food and the Eiffel Tower. Les Bleus hosted this famous tournament in 1998, doing so in a modern classic from adidas as they decked out the host in style. Zidane, the man of the tournament, scored two headers in the final with the soon-to-become iconic number 10 shirt on his back. A great collar and a great use of the famous three stripes on this one, this shirt should be on everyone’s eBay wishlist. Brazil 1970 Surely the most famous football shirt ever? Brazil introduced samba football to the world in 1970, doing so on the medium of colour TV that was becoming so much more accessible by the time of the World Cup in Mexico. It meant the golden yellow of the legendary shirts shimmered in front of the eyes of a global audience, whilst Pele and co weaved their magic at this tournament. Maybe the greatest World Cup goal of all time was scored in this, too, as Carlos Alberto completed the move of the summer in the final.