I would like to testify - Trump on Mueller probe Published time: 22 Mar, 2018 17:33 Edited time: 23 Mar, 2018 09:45 Get short URL © Leah Millis / Reuters President Donald Trump said that he wants to testify before Robert Mueller as part of his Special Counsel investigation into alleged Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election 
"Yes. I would like to," Trump said on Thursday when asked about an interview with Mueller during an event on trade. 
The president's pronouncement comes after the sudden resignation of John Dowd, his top lawyer who was leading Trump’s handling of the Mueller probe. Dowd had opposed Trump’s desire to be interviewed by Mueller. 
Trump has been increasingly vocal about his dislike for the Mueller investigation in recent weeks, tweeting that the enquiry is based on “fraudulent activities.” Why does the Mueller team have 13 hardened Democrats, some big Crooked Hillary supporters, and Zero Republicans? Another Dem recently added...does anyone think this is fair? And yet, there is NO COLLUSION! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 18 March 2018 The Mueller probe should never have been started in that there was no collusion and there was no crime. It was based on fraudulent activities and a Fake Dossier paid for by Crooked Hillary and the DNC, and improperly used in FISA COURT for surveillance of my campaign. WITCH HUNT! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 18 March 2018 
Despite denouncing the investigation as a “ witch hunt, ” Trump has previously said that he would like to testify under oath. “ I’m looking forward to it, ” Trump told the press in January. “ I would do it under oath ” he reportedly vowed. Trump has consistently denied any collusion with Russia. 
The House Intelligence Committee voted on Thursday to formally end its Russia probe, after lawmakers found no evidence of collusion between Trump associates and Russia. 
Trump’s lawyers and advisers fear that, if interviewed, he could inadvertently perjure himself. This stance puts them at odds with Trump, although Trump has been quick to dismiss reports of conflict. The Failing New York Times purposely wrote a false story stating that I am unhappy with my legal team on the Russia case and am going to add another lawyer to help out. Wrong. I am VERY happy with my lawyers, John Dowd, Ty Cobb and Jay Sekulow. They are doing a great job and — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) 11 March 2018 
“ The idea of putting Trump in a room with five or six hardened, very clever lawyers, all of whom are trying to trick him and trap him, would be a very, very bad idea, ” Newt Gingrich, the Republican former Speaker of the House said, during an interview with Fox & Friends in January. 
Mueller’s team has indicted or received guilty pleas from 19 people and three companies so far. None of the charges against Trump advisers have alleged that they worked with Russia to meddle in the US election, although Michael Flynn and George Papadopoulos pleaded guilty to making false statements to investigators about their relationships with Russians. 
Two weeks ago Trump's former campaign manager Paul Manafort pleaded not guilty to criminal charges, including bank fraud and filing false tax returns, none of which relate to Russia or the alleged interference in the US election. 
Like this story? Share it with a friend!