by admin Galaxy S8 Case, TORRAS Slim Fit Matte Finish Samsung Galaxy s8 Ultra Thin Case with Excellent Grip, Minimalist Galaxy s8 Case [Black]–All Screen Protector Friendly 
Price: (as of Jan 01,1970 00:00:00 – Details ) 
TORRAS slim Galaxy s8 hard plastic matte protective case with good grip 
▷ Compatible with Samsung Galaxy s8 only. It cannot fit with your Galaxy s8 plus !!! This is a thin Galaxy s8 case not a bulky Galaxy s8 phone case. 
▷ Maximum Protection: including full protection, covered corners and a raised lip to protect the screen of your Galaxy s8. 
▷ Compatible with Galaxy s8 screen protector. Not only regular tempered glass screen protector, but it is compatible with full coverage Galaxy s8 screen protector. Please notice : screen protector isn’t included in your package. 
▷ Compatible with wireless charger. The Galaxy s8 slim case doesn’t interfere with the wireless charging. 
▷ How to remove and install? Easy to install and remove. Install – Just put it on from top of the corners of the phone. Remove -Just snap it off from one of the corners of the phone. 
▷ Excellent Grip: The premium smooth matte-finish coating provides excellent grip and provide maximum scratch resistance. 
▷ Precise cut-outs: It designed due to the Galaxy S8, ensure the exact holes to match perfectly, protect the charging port and speaker well. 
▷ Lifetime Case Warranty: Lifetime warranty from TORRAS to ensure maximum protection for the life of your Galaxy S8 Case. 
Ultra Slim: TORRAS Galaxy S8 Lightweight Case Black features a slim fit body without adding bulk.Perfect Fit: Minimalist Samsung Galaxy S8 case can fit for your Samsung Galaxy S8 perfectly. Easy to install and take off.Screen Protector and Pockets Friendly: Galaxy S8 Screen Protector Friendly; Pocket-friendly Galaxy S8 case slides in and out of your pocket with ease.Raised Lip: Ultra Thin Samsung Galaxy S8 case with better grip has precise cutouts for easy access and slightly elevated edges to protect screen and camera.Lifetime Case Warranty: Lifetime warranty from TORRAS to ensure maximum protection for the life of your Galaxy S8 Case. 