Home Articles Numerical Methods for the Markov Functional Model Numerical Methods for the Markov Functional Model Simon Johnson proposes some numerical methods for efficient implementation of the 1- and 2-factor Markov Functional models of interest rate derivatives. These methods allow a sufficiently rapid implementation of the standard calibration method, that joint calibration to caplets and swaptions becomes possible within reasonable CPU time. Prices for Bermudan swaptions generated within the Markov Functional model are found to be very close to market consensus prices. Bermudans are therefore a good example of a product ideally suited to this model. 19th March 2018 admin Articles 0 
The Libor Market Model of Brace Gatarek and Musiela (BGM) (1997) is the market standard model for pricing and hedging exotic interest rate derivatives. Its advantages include model parameters which are easy to interpret in terms of financial variables, ability to define realistic correlation dynamics, and the ability to price essentially any callable Libor exotics by means of Monte Carlo valuation. 
There are two main difficulties in practical implementation of the BGM Model. Firstly the drift is strongly state-dependent and cannot be reduced to a low-dimensional Markovian form. Whilst simulations with long time-steps can still be performed using a suitable differencing scheme (Hunter et al., 2001; Joshi, 2005), this does mean that Monte Carlo simulation is the only practical method for pricing. One must work hard to achieve acceptable convergence, particularly when computing hedge ratios of callable Libor exotics Piterbarg (2004). Secondly, although calibration to market prices of caplets is of course trivial, there is a great deal of debate surrounding the best way to perform global calibration of a BGM model to market prices of all at-the-money swaptions. 
The choice of calibration method becomes even richer when extensions to BGM, including displaced diffusion, local volatility or stochastic volatility are considered Rebonato (2004). However when the model is used in a production environment, it is by no means simple to ensure that a small change in market quotes give rise to a correspondingly small change in model parameters and hence stable hedges are obtained. 
Logged-in members can download the article by clicking the link below. To log in or register visit here . Related Posts Letters from a Steel Town: Calibration problems &#... When pricing structured or derivative financial instruments, the typical steps a quant has to do are the following: 1. Choose a model for the movement... A Generalised Procedure for Locating the Optimal C... The fundamental concepts that shape modern capital structuring theory were first put together by Modigliani and Miller (1958) in a series of proposit... The Great Investors, Their Methods and How We Eval... Winning has two parts: getting an edge and then betting well. The former simply means that investments have an advantage so $1 invested returns on... Not-so-complex Logarithms in the Heston Model In Heston's stochastic volatility framework , semi-analytical formulæ for plain vanilla option prices can be derived. Unfortunately, these formulæ... Six Degrees of Idiocy One of the classic works of poker, and risk management, is Herbert Yardley’s 1957 best-seller, The Education of a Poker Player, Including Where an... Monte Carlo Methods in Quantitative Finance Generi... We describe how we have designed and implemented a software architecture in C++ to model one-factor and multifactor option pricing problems. We pa... A Case Study on Asset Allocation in a Markowitz Wo... With a global wealth of 256 trillion USD in 2016 and with an ongoing regime of extremely low interest rates, the task of efficient asset allocati... Derivatives Technology as a Matter of Survival How can banks survive the upcoming years? The traditional business model no longer works because: 1. Low/negative interest rates: Interest rate... 110802_johnson