OSC orders Aurora to provide more disclosure, blocks CanniMed poison pill in marijuana takeover battle 
A quick recap: CanniMed was pursuing a transaction with Newstrike Resources; Aurora, with the “hard” locked-up support of four CanniMed shareholders (who owned a total of 35.66 per cent) made an offer for CanniMed conditional on the Newstrike deal being cancelled; CanniMed adopted a tactical shareholders rights plan to prevent Aurora from acquiring any more shares or signing up other shareholders. The matter ended up before Ontario and Saskatchewan securities regulators, who struck down the plan last December (partly on the grounds that it wasn’t in the public interest), allowing Aurora to purchase another five per cent (taking its stake to more than 40 per cent) and potentially locking up other shareholders. 
Fraiberg bases his assessment on three key parts of the 30-page reasons document. One part focuses on the regulators’ claim the takeover bid regime would become “far less predictable and the planning and implementation of shareholder value-enhancing transactions (would be made) more difficult or inappropriately discouraged,” by arrangements in which “tactical shareholder rights plans could, as a general matter, operate to prevent lock-ups and permitted market purchases.” 
The second part was the regulators’ view that some tactical plans “can be confusing to investors and market participants,” and besides would serve “no useful purpose.” 
The final part focuses on the regulators’ conclusion that the rights plan constitutes an “impermissible defensive tactic.” They said it will be a “rare case” in which a tactical plan will be permitted to interfere with established features of the takeover bid regime. Those features include the opportunity for bidders and shareholders to make decisions in their own interests regarding whether to tender to a bid by entering into lock-up agreements. 
How did we get here? One starting point is the May 2016 decision to implement a new takeover bid regime with little reference to poison pills. (Three years earlier Quebec’s Autorité des marchés financiers issued a consultation paper calling for an expanded role for defensive tactics and a greater emphasis on the board’s business judgment. ) 
The “implicit” understanding at the time was that regulators would get out of the business of adjudicating rights plans given the new takeover rules that required a deal to be completed in 105 days, with a 10-day extension, and a 50 per cent minimum tender were more generous than what was allowed under a so-called permitted bid. (But issuers still kept seeking shareholder approval for rights plans.) 
But gaps remain between what was allowed under old rights plans and the workings of the new takeover rules. Previously, bidders weren’t allowed to purchase another five per cent (if it took them above 20 per cent) until the pill expired; now the regulators are saying the 5 per cent is available immediately. 
“Under the old regime, participants had confidence that rights plans would prevent a 5 per cent creep and hard lock-ups; now there is some uncertainty,” said Fraiberg. “If this interpretation is correct, the irony is that the new regime potentially provides less board protection,” than previously. 
Financial Post