ME Sitges Terramar Opens On The Catalan Coast Now open – 213 Rooms ME Sitges Terramar 
Luxury lifestyle hotel brand, ME by Meliá, has launched its first property on the Catalan coast, ME Sitges Terramar, which is officially open as of today. Located just 20 miles along the coast from Barcelona, it follows the success of ME Mallorca and ME Ibiza in the Balearic Islands and represents a luxurious addition to one of Spain"s most renowned destinations. 
ME Sitges Terramar boasts 213 rooms, nearly all of which feature stunning sea views. The iconic ME Suite will provide guests with panoramic sea views, a private social lounge and a ME+ Service, which includes a variety of luxury privileges. The hotel also features the Personality Suite with large terraces and breath-taking sea views as well as 24 Chic Suites, all of which come with spacious terraces. In keeping with the ME by Meliá brand, ME Sitges Terramar"s interiors will be a fusion of contemporary and innovative design with cream and grey hues throughout. The hotel has been renovated by design studio, LaGranja, which is based in Barcelona. 
Owned and developed by Hotel Investment Partners and located in the vibrant Paseo Marítimo in Sitges, ME Sitges Terramar is surrounded by palm trees and situated on the seafront, offering a tranquil, relaxing setting, with thriving bars, restaurants and shops nearby. Sitges, a beautiful, Mediterranean, gay-friendly beach town capital is just 16 miles from Barcelona Airport (BCN) by car, making it a popular coastal destination. With 26 beautiful beaches, historic architecture, from Renaissance to Art Nouveau, museums, water sports and golf, as well as an array of friendly, quirky pop-up beach bars and a vibrant nightlife, Sitges is fast becoming a mini Ibiza. 
The property will offer two restaurants, including Beso Sitges, which has 200 seats and features Mediterranean-inspired dishes, paellas and an extensive cocktail menu, as well as Beso Beach, located on the beachfront, perfect for chilling out to laid-back lounge music, while taking in the magnificent Sitges sunset. Guests will be able to enjoy the ultimate Gourmet experience, with a delicious menu of Basque recipes with touches of local cuisine and seasonal ingredients. ME Sitges Terramar will also feature the Oyster Bar located in the lobby, offering the best selection of fresh oysters, crab and seafood, as well as cheeses and charcuterie, accompanied by an extensive list of wines and Champagne. While guests relaxing by the pool can enjoy delicious natural juices, smoothies and superfood cocktails at Pool Bar. 
ME by Meliá hotels are renowned for their breath-taking rooftop spaces, with the brand"s flagship hotel ME London, ME Milan Il Duca and ME Madrid Reina Victoria featuring rooftop bars with impressive skyline views. Opening this summer, RADIO ME Sitges, Rooftop Bar will also offer panoramic views of the surrounding area where guests can relax under the stars, chill out to music and enjoy a signature cocktail. 
Guests will be able to indulge in "ME time" at the Spa, which will offer a range of relaxing massages and personalised treatments. ME Sitges Terramar will also provide an out-of-the-ordinary backdrop for holding meetings, events and private parties as well as offering free, high-speed Wi-Fi. 
René Hoeltschl, General Manager of ME Sitges Terramar, said: "ME Sitges Terramar will be a hotel-destination on the Mediterranean coast which will become a "must" for sophisticated travelers seeking a place in which to rest their body and mind. ME Sitges Terramar takes the attributes of the ME by Meliá brand to another level after its great success with the most discerning travelers on the beaches of Ibiza, Mallorca and Los Cabos." 
ME by Meliá is for culture-seeking guests that are driven by new luxury experiences. The brand has been built on first-rate service and ME Sitges Terramar is no exception. Each guest's stay is orchestrated by a dedicated Aura Manager, whose job it is to know the coastal town back-to-front and use this knowledge to make the hotel's service truly bespoke. 
There are currently ME by Meliá hotels in Miami, Milan, London, Ibiza, Mallorca, Madrid and Cabo. Designed by Zaha Hadid Architects, ME Dubai is set to launch at the end of 2018, followed by the opening of ME Barcelona in 2019.