The Elizabeth Unique Hotel is the newest treasure in Rome Now open – 33 Rooms Elizabeth Unique Hotel Elizabeth Unique Hotel 
Nestled discreetly among the golden cobbled streets and time-worn terracotta hues of Rome"s historic city center, Elizabeth Unique Hotel has just opened with grandeur worthy of the locale. Located just a short walk from the Spanish Steps, in a restored 17th-century palazzo, the 33-room property is an homage to Roman classicism and the masters of yesteryear, yet a firm contemporary imprint reveals a snapshot of modern-day Rome. Here, a centuries-old townhouse of dramatic scale boasts wide-arched hallways, hand-crafted workmanship, stand-out service, and an art collection curated by a neighborhood gallery. www.designhotels.com/elizabeth-unique-hotel 
Hailing from five generations of construction, the Curatella family at the helm of the transformation have brought an eye for quality building practices and immaculate materials. A brick and mortar ode to a beloved family member, Elizabeth Unique Hotel"s meticulous restoration is the work of the celebrated Rome-based architectural studio Marincola. Traditional yet contemporary, the wood-shuttered Palazzo Pulieri Ginetti occupies 1600 square meters, spaciously spread over three floors. Accessed on the quiet side street of Colonnette, an impressive double-height entrance whisks guests into a secluded environment via an elevator or staircase to a refined lobby and library area. Public spaces are intimate and characterized by neoclassical elements such as ample white marble, neutral tones, and fireplaces. Modern furnishings and lighting have been designed by studio Marincola and tailor-made by Arredo Design. 
A focus on the highest level of refined luxury and service standards was the driving force behind a manifesto crafted by industry leader Giuseppe Falconieri, who has informed all aspects of operations. Brought on board to launch Elizabeth Unique Hotel, Falconieri has imparted a distinct vision formed from his years in hospitality, and has treated the guest experience as a journey through the singular destination. 
The 33 guest rooms range from 20 to 40 square meters, many offering views over the picturesque Via del Corso. Most room categories are defined by arched walls, created in lacquered wooden boiseries—a modern reference to the full arch concept of Roman building traditions. The key visual feature in most of the guestrooms comes courtesy of a stunning custom wallpaper mounted on the walls which frame the beds. A replica of antique prints, the black and white sceneries depict typical Roman countryside imagery, an evocation of the "grand tours" of eras past. Light, natural oakwood floors, custom draperies, steel canopy beds or dramatic velvet headboards, and gold details combine to create a distinguished stay steeped in past and present. Bathrooms are outfitted in marble, with some suite categories boasting the added perk of a private sauna. Amenities are by Italian perfumery house, Laura Tonatto. 
Located on the first floor of the hotel, the 40-seat Bacharach & Bistrot is an homage to the distinguished American composer Burt Bacharach. Elegant and loungey, sage green banquets and bar stools provide splashes of color, contrasting the white and grey-veined marble floors, salvia green chairs, and a bar framed by walnut wood paneling. Guests can expect a painstakingly sourced à la carte menu of international classics alongside regional specialties, as well as one of Rome"s pre-eminent breakfasts, served until 2:30pm. 
An in-house pastry chef insures a plentiful stock of fresh-baked goods day-round, which provide the backbone for gourmet Italian sandwiches. A carefully selected wine list by renowned wine expert Luca Maroni (from the Migliori Vini Italiani festival) means some of Italy"s finest vintages are on offer, best enjoyed bar-side or on the open-air terrace that sits raised in a protected inner courtyard. This urban garden space is made of earthy materials like wood and stone, where wafts of jasmine set the tone for a heady Roman experience. 
A meaningful partnership with the neighborhood gallery Russo means an elevated approach to the hotel"s artistic expression. Carefully curated, site-specific artwork has transformed the hallways and guest rooms into private exhibition spaces for contemporary Italian artists. This cue is an indication of Elizabeth Unique Hotel"s overall emphasis on a culturally-rooted experience whereby a Cultural Manager (and art historian) will also be available to aid travelers in seeking out their definitive Roman getaway by providing less commonly known background and kid-friendly virtual tours that animate Roman ruins of the past. 