OldTwitter 
And, yes, his net worth is estimated at $160 million, another indication that Gary is actually a unicorn in business too. 
But that doesn’t mean he doesn’t do some of the same things you and I do, or that he doesn’t have similar interests and struggles as everyone else. 
So, before you place the unicorn that is Gary Vaynerchuk on a pedestal, here are four facts that may have you seeing him in a different light. 1. He Cusses Up a Storm 
Gary Vaynerchuk is known as much for his penchant for curse words as he is for his business prowess . 
In fact, he once stated during an interview that his favorite swear word was “di**face.” [via Ask Gary Vee Show ] 
But his dropping of F-bombs or other curse words isn’t necessarily premeditated or a decision to get a rise out of people . 
According to Gary, “It’s just something that happens when I have a camera on me,” and considers it a reflection of his need to “be me.” 
While some people may be turned off by his cussing, a recent study in Language Sciences , found that swearing isn’t a sign of someone with a limited vocabulary, lack of education, or self-control issues. In many cases, the opposite is true. 
In a separate study conducted by Professor of Cognitive Science at US San Diego and author, Benjamin Bergen, even suggested that people who use profanity may be more intelligent than those that don’t. [via NY Daily News ] 
So, don’t judge Gary negatively on his language choices, even if they are untraditional in the business world. They could be an indication as to why he is so successful. 2. He Loves Football 
Gary didn’t start out a major fan of the sport. He admits his favorite team was chosen for him by another kid when he was 5 years old, after he had just moved to New Jersey from Belarus and before he had a solid grasp of the English language . [via GaryVaynerchuk.com ] 
However, over time, he grew to love the team. 
After launching Wine Library TV, Gary could be seen spitting wine from his tastings into a New York Jets bucket, and now considers buying the team to be one of his ultimate goals. [via Fortune ] 
Just like so many other people living in the good ole US of A, he’s probably amped for the upcoming NFL season. And he’s likely hoping his beloved New York Jets take it all the way to the Super Bowl . 3. He’s a Fan of the Selfie 
While it’s no surprise that someone who has built so much of their empire based on their social media presence isn’t scared of a few pics, Gary’s Instagram account is predominately filled with selfies. 
In fact, his known fondness for the selfie was even on display when he cheekily pulled out his phone and mimicked taking such a pic while being introduced as a judge at the 88th Miss America Pageant. [via Fortune] 
So, if you’ve ever questioned whether successful entrepreneurs and business owners chronicle their lives the same way that so many others do, in Gary’s case, the answer is yes. 4. He’s Has to Fight for Work-Life Balance 
Like so many people today, Gary is a dedicated family man, with a wife and two children, who wants to have a chance to travel the world. [via Huffington Post ] 
He makes his priorities very clear in his Twitter profile, where the very first words are “Family 1st!” [via Twitter @garyvee ] 
However, he does admit that “it’s a constant battle” to balance his family life with his work . [via Inc ] 
Ultimately, that makes it seem as though Gary is fighting the same battles that many of us do every day. People are often torn between their work obligations and home life, and those that reach the higher echelons of success are doing the same. 
Yes, Gary Vaynerchuk is the unicorn king of social media marketing, and that is definitely worth recognizing. But, in a lot of ways, he’s like the rest of us. A normal guy who drops the occasional F-bomb, enjoys watching grown men fight over a football, posts the occasional selfie, and just wants to travel more with his family. Be a Unicorn in a Sea of Donkeys 
Get my very best Unicorn marketing & entrepreneurship growth hacks. Sign up to have them sent to your email directly! About The Author 
Larry Kim is the CEO of Mobile Monkey and founder of WordStream . You can connect with him on Twitter , Facebook , LinkedIn and Instagram . 
Originally posted in Inc.com 