Home Politics JUST IN: Hannity Hits PAY DIRT Digging Into Mueller’s Past JUST IN: Hannity Hits PAY DIRT Digging Into Mueller’s Past March 21, 2018 related Politics Comments Off on JUST IN: Hannity Hits PAY DIRT Digging Into Mueller’s Past 
Sean Hannity devoted his Tuesday night show to revealing his findings after digging into the past of special counsel Robert Mueller, who is overseeing the Russia witch-hunt. 
Turns out, Mueller isn’t so “squeaky clean” after all. 
From Daily Caller 
Fox News host Sean Hannity devoted time on his Tuesday show to examining the past of special counsel Robert Mueller and his findings were intriguing. 
Hannity referred to a report from Fox News’ Sarah Carter citing Mueller’s career as a prosecutor in the 1980s. When Mueller was serving as assistant U.S. attorney, four men were wrongfully convicted and imprisoned for a crime they did not commit and the special counsel was in charge of the case when it happened. 
“Robert Mueller’s career has been anything but impeccable,” Hannity said. “One of the worst stains on his record comes from his time Boston, where he served as assistant U.S. attorney and acting U.S. attorney in the ’80s. During this time notorious Boston mob boss Whitey Bulger, he was actively engaged by the FBI as an informant. The relationship between Bulger and the bureau was wrought with nothing but corruption and criminal collusion.” 
“Bulger’s FBI handler, guy by the name of John Connolly covered up for many of the horrific crimes that were committed by Bulger and his associates, including one instance where four men were wrongfully framed and convicted and imprisoned for decades — all for a murder it turns out they did not commit,” Hannity continued. “The men were ultimately exonerated. A judge awarded $101 million in damages, but not before two of the men actually died in prison. Robert Mueller was the U.S. attorney in charge while these men were rotting in prison while certain agents in the FBI under Mueller covered up the truth.” 
Hannity said it’s vital the country find out what Mueller knew and when he knew it and believes the media and Congress are propping him up as a hero to support a political agenda. 
“When did [Robert Mueller] know about all of this this? These are questions I’m sure you have not heard from your friends in the liberal media. Some members of Congress, the media, they’re praising Mueller . The pillar of honesty. The pillar of virtue,” Hannity said. “They’ve never investigated him. They’re actually just lying. It’s their talking point. All the information we’re telling you about is right there, right in front of the liberal mainstream media in their faces. They purposely ignore it because their destroy Trump agenda — that goes above all else.” 
“Robert Mueller has an agenda. He’s carrying out a witch hunt. This is par for the course,” Hannity concluded. 