Jo Ann Gramlich Writes Interactive Activity Book For Children’s Language Development Helpful book shares fun activities for parents to assist a child with language development. Amhearst New York   
Remember to keep on talking. 
Jo Ann Gramlich’s interactive book “TALK, PLAY, AND READ WITH ME MOMMY” features hands-on activities that parents and infants/toddlers/pre-schoolers may enjoy together. The book is designed to help young children enhance their speech and language skills and includes many stimulating games and activities that are not only developmentally appropriate but also aid in the growth of their brain advancement. 
“TALK, PLAY, AND READ WITH ME MOMMY” is divided into three stages (infancy, toddlerhood, and preschool) with each stage providing appropriate activities and games. Gramlich believes in the importance of early communication between the parent and the child and thus creates this educational resource. She draws from her interactions and involvement with the young children she has worked with as a Speech-Language Pathologist and from these experiences, shares strategies and techniques that can aid parents when interacting with their child during these vitally important growing years. Various easy, simple, and age-appropriate activities and games that the author meticulously details by providing steps on how to properly perform the activity are the main contents of the book. 
Gramlich’s helpful interactive activity book is definitely a must-have. Taken from someone who had experiences handling children with communication delays/disorders, this book will definitely help enrich a child’s language skills growing up. 
“TALK, PLAY, AND READ WITH ME MOMMY” will be displayed at the upcoming 2018 Bologna Book Fair which will take place on March 26, 2018. Save the date and grab a copy! 
TALK, PLAY, AND READ WITH ME MOMMY Written by Jo Ann Gramlich Published by AuthorHouse Paperback price $16.99 
About the author Jo Ann Gramlich is a Speech-Language Pathologist who provides evaluation and remediation services for children with communication delays and disorders in the Buffalo Public School District of Western New York. She also provides speech-language therapy for children in early intervention and preschool programs within Erie County. She holds an MS in Speech-Language Pathology from the State University of New York College at Buffalo. 
 //photos.webwire.com/prmedia/55089/215863/215863-1.jpg )