CRAVE 
The latest make-up must-have? We’re obsessed with Rodin’s brand new elegant, iconic lipsticks… 
Linda Rodin is an absolute mega babe. She’s the woman we want to grow up to be. Achingly chic with ridiculously elegant style – and did we mention that she has her very own beauty brand too? Yep, she’s the one woman powerhouse behind Rodin Olio Lusso : one of the coolest brands to emerge in the past decade. Covetable, elegantly-understated packaging. A concise, considered edit of products that not only really work, they look totally luscious too. The latest Rodin offering to hit shelves? A brand new collection of five must-have lipstick colours launched right in time for spring. 
Five iconic shades already make up the collection, with the brand new colours adding deep tones, contemporary nudes and brights that all feel very now. Rodin’s lipcolours are enriched with the same signature blend of luxurious essential oils you’ll find in the brand’s skincare products – and the scent of heady jasmine is lovely as well as beautifully hydrating. Somehow Rodin’s lipsticks achieve the ultimate combination – they’re both long-lasting and highly-pigmented plus comfortable, soft and nourishing. You can pop this on in the morning, and expect it to last through lunch and beyond. There’s none of that tight, drying sensation that matte lipsticks can have either – the smooth, soft texture feels hydrating and rich. 
Our favourites from Rodin’s new lipstick collection? We LOVE something different but not totally bonkers when it comes to lipsticks – a change from the classics reds and nudes you might everyday. Arancia Adore and Pinky Winky fit the bill perfectly; a pinky-toned coral shade that feels fresh, modern and summery, and a berry-toned twist on pink, inspired by Linda Rodin’s dog, no less! Heavenly Hopp adds a touch of lilac to nude for a flattering finish, while Berry Baci (a deep fuschia) and Lucille Ball-inspired Loving Lucy (a pink-toned red) are two sophisticated shades to wear all year round. 
A final word for the packaging – which is not only understated and elegant, but perfectly practical too. Linda Rodin is an absolute icon. And it looks like these brand new lipsticks are destined for iconic status too! 
Rodin Olio Lusso’s lipsticks are available to buy at Liberty London – where else? Shop the collection online her e.