Wire Service Children’s Book by Joyce Teal Provides a Very Entertaining Way for Kids to Learn Their Alphabet Author Joyce Teal gives the readers a book that will help kids learn their A, B, Cs in a fun way. Dallas Texas   
The book that will help kids learn their A-B-Cs in a fun and exciting way. 
“Learning A, B, C’s with Seth ” is a children’s book that helps children learn their alphabets easily and in a fun way. The book was written by Dr. Joyce Willard Teal. The author, being a teacher, incorporates some fun ways to make the book more interesting for children. 
This book is written in poetry style and is quite pleasurable to read. The feel of the words in one’s tongue is delightful and will surely entertain the children. 
“Learning A, B, C’s with Seth” is a really enjoyable book for kids and a must-have for parents. This book will soon be displayed   Fair, which will take place this coming March 26, 2018. 
Learning A, B, C’s with Seth Written by: Joyce Teal Published date: June 30, 2011 Paperback price: $6.95 Hardback price: $21.28 
About the Author Joyce Willard Teal is a graduate of Prairie View A&M University. She was an award-winning teacher in the Dallas Independent School District from which she retired. She taught school in Dallas for six years, but her career path has taken her through New Jersey, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Georgia and Virginia where she taught community college and reading/language arts to boys and girls in the public schools. She began writing professionally in 1993 and has had several award-winning poems published. 
Dr. Teal received a Doctorate in Counseling from Chelsea University and, in 2008, she received a Doctorate in Christian Counseling from/ Jacksonville Theological Seminary. She is the 1998 recipient of the Excellence in Teaching Award . This award is sponsored by Shell Oil Company for the National Council of Negro Women and is a prestigious award that only a few in the profession are privileged to receive. Dr. Teal is married to Prince O. Teal, a retired Federal Department of Education employee who is now CEO of his own educational consulting firm, Teal’s Consultant Services. The couple has two adult children: Rodney, who is an attorney and a pastor; and Geisel, who is a Division Manager for Family and Community Partnerships, one of the three divisions of Headstart. 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/55089/215699/215699-1.jpg )