  Quest Offshore Launches Focused Floating Wind Energy Platform 
Houston, Texas — March 20, 2018 Quest Offshore Resources, Inc. today announces Quest Floating Wind Energy LLC (Q FWE), an innovative data and analytical practice focused entirely on the resources driving the Economics, Technology and Supply Chain encompassing Floating Wind Energy. 
The delivery of affordable, reliable energy is a fundamental driver of economic growth and advancement. As global energy companies continue to diversify their energy portfolios to manage climate change risks, alternative energy resources are growing in importance. Renewables in the power sector attract the largest share of investment with wind technology accounting for more than one-third of the investment in renewables-based electricity generation in 2040, according to the IEA. 
The emergence of Floating Wind Energy is moving at a rapid pace with much accomplished in a relatively short time. “Goals are being reached ahead of schedule due to the technical achievements and determination of those sharing the same ambition to unlock the potential of the world’s most intense wind areas. Eighty-percent of these areas lie in waters beyond the reach of fixed turbines, making floating wind a key player contributing to the world’s energy transition into a low carbon future”, said John Chadderdon, Q FWE Director. 
To aid industry in developing their strategies and targeting opportunities in this sector’s dynamic supply chain, Q FWE has assembled the resources and experience to connect the various disciplines and services involved in this quickly developing industry. “Q FWE’s purpose is to provide world-class ‘deep data,’ delivering clarity, insight and vision that informs better decision making in the Floating Wind Energy industry,” said Paul Hillegeist, Q FWE’s President. The Q FWE Platform, in conjunction with Q FWE’s Consulting practice, provides customized analysis to aid businesses, government bodies, financial markets and the entirety of the supply chain in making strategic and qualified data-driven decisions. 
Driven by a strong management team 
Decades of dedicated expertise in data analytics, market analysis and the development of offshore floating projects provides Q FWE with the means and the network to offer strategic insight to the offshore floating wind industry going forward. “Q FWE uniquely merges the expertise of Quest Offshore and Floating Wind Energy (the Netherlands) which published the world’s first forecast map of global Floating Wind Energy projects,” said Erik Rijkers, Q FWE’s Director Market Development & Strategy and founder of Floating Wind Energy.nl. Erik will continue to be based in The Netherlands. The 2018 edition of this map will be published by Q FWE 
Erik Rijkers recognized over a decade ago the potential of floating wind energy. He has 40 years’ experience as consultant and advisor in maritime and offshore technology environments and acquired deep insight in offshore design, construction and mooring technology. 
Quest Offshore founders John Chadderdon and Paul Hillegeist, who collectively have over 50 years of experience in leading Data Analytics, Market Research and Energy Industry Economics, head the Q FWE Management team and are based in Houston. 
David Southerland joins Q FWE’s management team as Director Data Architecture & Services. David has over 25 years working in data management for the energy industry with ODS-Petrodata and IHS Markit. Over time, David has built specific knowledge on distilling complex data relationships now being applied to the Q FWE projects database. 
William Cooper III, Principle of BlackArch Partners, serves on Q FWE’s Board of Directors providing strategic insight into financial issues affecting this dynamic market segment. Chadderdon, Hillegeist and Rijkers also serve as members of the Board of Directors. 
Proven experience and technical expertise 
Q FWE launches a dedicated FWE projects database monitoring floating wind developments and all of their associated components including Floating Turbine Units (FTU), Moorings, Power Cables and other associated subsea hardware. For each project the database details 250 distinct data fields continuously updated as the project develops throughout each stage of the supply chain, including installation and support equipment. Q FWE tracks and monitors each project’s full life cycle from early planning through construction, assembly and commissioning including operations and maintenance (O&M) and ultimately repositioning/decommissioning. 
Powered by ‘deep data’, Q FWE’s dynamic projects database tool provides robust data analytics supported by a continuous feed of strategic insight and tactical information. Q FWE’s Project Data Sheets and Concepts, as illustrated on www.QuestFWE.com, are the latest output from our extensive database of projects and floater designs. As an integral part of the supply chain, Q FWE will interact directly with floating wind project developers, operators and floater designers for verification of pertinent data attributes. 
Since 1999, Quest Offshore has been an industry leader providing clarity and insight on deepwater market intelligence and data analytics principally through their Data & Subscription division, a SaaS business focused on the Deepwater Oil & Gas Supply Chain that Quest sold to Wood Mackenzie (a Verisk Analytics business) in Q3 2016. Following the sale of that division, Quest remains focused on strategy, advisory and consulting across the energy landscape through company affiliates Calash Americas LLC, Quest Offshore Consulting LLC and now Quest Floating Wind Energy LLC, (a Quest Offshore Resources Company). 
Please view source version on www.QuestFWE.com : 
Contact Us: 
Quest Floating Wind Energy, LLC 
77 Sugar Creek Center Blvd., Suite 500 
Sugar Land, Texas 77478