  973 times! 
The national taekwondo teams are confident of winning medals at the Africa Taekwondo Championship Games to be held at Agidir, Morocco starting March 28-April 3rd. 
During the games, the same venue will also be host the 3rd African Para-Taekwondo Championship. 
It’s the first time Rwanda is sending the biggest continent of 15 athletes for the continental games including five Para-taekwondo participants which left Kigali on Saturday at 4:00 pm. 
“We are sending a bigger contingent of athletes because it will raise our chances of winning more medals in the individual games in Morocco. “We are ranked first in the para taekwondo and top five in Africa. Though we hope to find a challenge when facing host Morocco since they have an advantage of fielding a bigger number of participants” He noted 
Bagabo pointed out that the fact that they have faced the other opponents like Egypt, Ivory Coast, and Tunisia before; it gives them the confidence having exhibited that during the continental championship hosted in Kigali when team Rwanda won five medals. 
It is the third time team Rwanda is partly taking in the games since the first edition held in Egypt, while the second was hosted in Rwanda and now Morocco. 
The team is headed by Benoit Kayitare the captain, with Savio Nizeyimana, Vincent Munyakazi, Jean Marie Vianney Bizumuremyi, Clarisse Uwayo, Boniface Mbonigaba. 
Moussa Twizeymana, Delphine Uwababyeyi, Aline Ndacyayisenga, also among the selected is Raissa Umurerwa, Aline Ndacyayisenga, and Denise Uwase complete the squad. 
Para Taekwondo:Jean de la Croix Nikwigize, Consolee Rukundo, Jean Claude Niringiyimana, Jean Marie Vianney Bizumuremyi, Parfait Hakizimana and Jean Pierre Manirakiza. 
Bagabo is also confident that the Para-taekwondo team of five athletes will return back home with more medals given the experience achieved when the scooped gold at the World Championships that concluded last October at the Copper Box Arena, London. 
Elsewhere, six U17 junior taekwondo athletes will also leave for Tunisia to take part in the continental junior continental junior championship slated to start on April 3rd. 
The team will comprise of three boys and three girls who will compete for the searching for the qualifiers tickets for the World Olympic Junior Championship Games due in Argentina in October this year. The team will depart Kigali on April 3rd. 
  973 times! Share this: