Marian Hailey-Moss’s “NALA the Little Elephant” Debuts a Story of these Wonderful Animals An elephant’s life is as priceless as the lives of humans Miami, FL USA   
Marian Hailey-Moss, displayed a well-versed book that awakens the empathy of the young children, which will help to transform them into better individuals of the society. “NALA the Little Elephant” is a story of these wonderful elephant creatures whose lives so far remain untouched by human wickedness. 
A representation of the natural way of life, NALA the little elephant continues to witness in fascination the unfolding of the secrets of the grown-up life as all children do, even baby elephants. The harshness of impending life struggles become vivid as each passing night welcomes the dawn of a new day. Yet, she continues to live her life, striving with confidence and hope, with her mother by her side—all for a life-long future filled with adventure and contentment. 
“NALA the Little Elephant” is a powerful story that can help to mold the lives of children with a healthy development of empathy, and kindness that portrays ultimate humanity. This book allows children to become aware of social issues, enabling them to think about the welfare of all living beings in this world. 
Journey to the world of the untold mysteries of animal life, and know the significant learnings awaiting to be discovered by visiting the author’s website: http://www.marianhaileymoss.com . You may also reach her out on social media sites: Marian Hailey-Moss – author on Facebook ; @MarianHailey on Twitter ; and Marian Hailey-Moss on YouTube . “NALA the Little Elephant” Written by Marian Hailey-Moss Published by A & A Printers Published date: Fall 2015 Paperback price $6.95 
About the Author A former Broadway and movie actress, Marian Hailey-Moss decided to pursue the career path of psychotherapist. In spite of the profession she focuses on, her grasp on the art remains firm. She has published picture books and colouring books that concentrates on the lives of animals. Marian resides on the Upper West Side in New York City with her rescued cats. 
 //photos.webwire.com/prmedia/60925/221466/221466-1.jpg )