Wire Service Sherry Cutrer Writes Children’s Book about Friendship and Forgiveness The book “Roxanne and George the Green Genie (The Adventures of Roxanne Adrianna Wafflestone Book 2)” is about Roxanne’s exciting adventures. Raleigh, North Carolina   
Friendship isn’t about who you’ve known the longest . It is about who walked into your life, said “I’m here for you” and proved it. 
Forgiving is very difficult to do and letting go of a friend is more than a person can handle. Friendship and forgiveness are two important subjects Sherry Cutrer tackles in “Roxanne and George the Green Genie.” With her book, the author hopes to impart the virtue of humility and understanding toward family and friends. Anyone struggling with difficulty in someone or is not in good terms should read this book. The story will enlighten their hearts and minds and above all, save a friendship, family ties, or any relationship. “Roxanne and George the Green Genie (The Adventures of Roxanne Adrianna Wafflestone Book 2)” will be one of the many touching books readers will find displayed in the upcoming 2018 Bologna International Book Fair which will be happening on March 26, 2018. Save the date and grab a copy. Roxanne and George the Green Genie (The Adventures of Roxanne Adrianna Wafflestone Book 2) Written by: Sherry Cutrer Published date: June 1, 2012 Paperback price: $11.95 About the Author Founded in 2006, independent author and publisher Cutrer, owner of From Me to You Stories, uses her background in education as well as a lifelong love of world cultures to weave the tale of the publishing world’s newest star, Roxanne Adrianna Wafflestone, into a story designed to offer the same content found in chapter books with illustrations that help emerging readers with comprehension and understanding. With years of experience volunteering in the refugee communities of Africa, southeast Asia and eastern Europe, Cutrer provides a perspective not normally afforded young readers. 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/55089/216528/216528-1.jpg )