NewsBoard 0 Comments 039 
2019: I’m the man to fix Nigeria —Lamido 
Former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido, who is also presidential aspirant on the platform of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the coming 2019 poll, on Thursday, in Lagos, said his presidential ambition was not out of desperation for power but for genuine service to the people of Nigeria, adding that he is the man to fix Nigeria. 
Lamido gave this assurance during a meeting with leaders and members of PDP at the party secretariat in Sogunle area of the state, saying he resolved to contest for the number one seat in the country because of his commitment to fix the country and reposition it for greatness. 
Lamido, who was accompanied on the visit by former Minister of Works, Mr Mike Onomalemen, and members of his campaign team, however, urged would-be delegates to the PDP National Convention to look out for merit, consistency and loyalty to the party in choosing the party’s presidential candidate for 2019. 
According to Lamido, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) had not rendered purposeful leadership since seizing power in 2015, saying the PDP had been vindicated about what he called its cluelessness. 
The former governor, while insisting that he was offering himself to contest the topmost position in order to return the country to the path of progress, further maintained that he was the man to fix Nigeria. 
Speaking further, Lamido said the APC-led government had made a mess of governance has failed to fulfil any of the promises it made in its manifestoes in 2015 poll and so must be flushed out in the next election. 
On security, economy and anti-graft war, the former Jigawa governor said the country had not fared better, pointing out that those were even the areas that the APC anchored their manifesto on. 
This was just as he described the abduction and return of Dapchi school girls as a tragedy, saying it reflected the lack of capacity of the present government to ensure security in the country. 
He also described the herdsmen killings across the country, the resurgence of Boko Haram atrocities as some of the frailties and failings of the present government, lamenting that the APC government was only good at propaganda and that their other stock- in- trade was to harass and blackmail the opposition. 
He, however, urged the PDP to put its acts together to seize power from APC in 2019, saying allowing the APC to retain governance would not be good for the country. 
ALSO READ: 2019: Atiku’s outburst against PMB is right, he is entitled to his opinion ―Lamido 
“We in the PDP should put our acts together and ensure we flush APC out in 2019. God would judge us if we allow the APC to return to power,” Lamido said. 
He thanked members of the Lagos PDP for the warm reception accorded him and also thanked the party chairman in the state for facilitating his coming to Lagos. 
Speaking, the PDP chairman in the state, Hon. Moshood Salvador said members were delighted to have the former governor, Lamido, in their midst, describing him as a consummate politician and leader, just as he said that the high turnout at the reception showed how much members loved him. 
Salvador dismissed the insinuations in some quarters that PDP was divided in the state, saying the fact that the party executives across the state were at the reception meant that PDP in the state was one. 
“PDP is not divided in the state. All the council excos are here. Everybody is here. The party is not divided. Whatever bad people are saying about the party in the state is nothing but all lies,” he said. 
He said he had done a lot to reposition the party since he was elected, saying the spirit in the party was now very high. 