Sean Nelson Educates Young Minds in a Fun Way with His Book Castle Rock, Colorado   
“Bungles Does The Bunny Op” by Sean Nelson creatively illustrates the response from both sides of the political spectrum as it relates to peace and war and the price of each response. 
Yellow-bellied snakes have eaten the last of the Dodo birds and continued to wreak havoc by eating everything in their way. As the threat advances closer and closer to home, Ronnie the elephant and Willy the donkey debate what the proper response should be. Should they talk to the snakes or should they should go to war in order to have peace? After a thorough debate, Bungles the bunny is recruited to help destroy the yellow-bellied snakes. Led by Vargas the mongoose, they must complete the secret mission, the “Bunny Op,” without being noticed by the snakes. The Bunny Op must succeed before their world goes the way of the Dodo. 
Sean Nelson came up with the idea of writing a children’s book one evening in the fall of 2000 when he placed a small stuffed bunny next to his daughter as she fell asleep. This well-written book is definitely a must-read to children because of its moral lessons and colorful illustrations. 
The book “Bungles Does the Bunny Op ” will be proudly   Fair   this March 26, 2018. Grab a copy now! www.bunglesbooks.com Bungles Does the Bunny Op Written by: Sean David Nelson Published by: DogEar Publishing Published Date: May 1, 2012 Paperback price: $16.95 About the author The author, Sean Nelson, lives in Castle Rock, Colorado with his wife and kids. The idea of introducing conservative principles to children via Bungles was born one evening in the fall of 2000 as he placed a small stuffed bunny next to his daughter as she fell asleep. In 1993 while serving in the United States Air Force, Rush Limbaugh challenged Sean Nelson’s political beliefs and he transitioned quickly from a liberal to a conservative. He has been an artist for over twenty years. From a humble beginning of drawing art for his high school newspaper and yearbook to publishing two children’s books, his artwork has taken many forms including a large mural he painted in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia depicting an F-16 dedicated to the 34th FS Rams of Hill AFB, Utah. 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/55089/215776/215776-1.jpg )