CO-Oximetry External QA Programme Launched   22 Mar 2018 Co-oximetry is a methodology that measures the levels of the oxygen-carrying protein haemoglobin, which is the chief component of red blood cells and CO-oximetry is useful in defining the causes for hypoxemia, or hypoxia. Co-oximetry is a useful tool in that it helps determine the levels of various forms of haemoglobin and can be used to diagnose a variety of conditions related to oxygen content in blood. Oxygen content is an important indicator of oxygen transport within the body. The oxygen transport of arterial blood is used to evaluate the ability of transporting oxygen from the lungs to the tissue. A new CO-Oximetry programme to complement their existing Blood Gas programme has been launched by Randox (Crumlin, UK). The programme combines seven parameters in a user-friendly, liquid ready-to-use format, the new RIQAS CO-Oximetry External Quality Assessment (EQA) programme has been designed with consolidation and convenience in mind and it is even suitable for use in point-of-care testing. All samples are supplied in a liquid ready-to-use format ideal for both clinical and point-of-care testing. The seven parameters covered by the programme are: Carboxyhaemoglobin (COHb / HbCO); Methaemoglobin (MetHb); Oxygen Content (O₂CT); Oxygen Saturation (sO₂ / Vol O₂); Oxyhaemoglobin (O₂Hb / HbO₂); Total Haemoglobin (tHb); and Reduced / Deoxyhaemoglobin (RHb / HHb). A high value for the Co-Oximetry Blood Test may indicate, among other things: carbon monoxide poisoning or congenital haemoglobin disorder. To compliment the RIQAS CO-Oximetry EQA Programme, the RIQAS Blood Gas EQA programme incorporates 10 parameters into a liquid ready-to-use format for ease of use. RIQAS is the world’s largest EQA scheme with 45,000 participants and 33 programmes ensuring peer groups are maximised. Lynsey Adams, BSc, the Quality Control Marketing Manager at Randox, said, “The launch of our new CO-Oximetry programme means we now offer a complete EQA solution for blood gas testing.” Read the full article by registering today, it's FREE! Register now for FREE to LabMedica.com and get complete access to news and events that shape the world of Clinical   Free digital version edition of LabMedica International sent by email on regular basis Free print version of LabMedica International magazine (available only outside USA and Canada). Free and unlimited access to back issues of LabMedica International in digital format Free LabMedica International Newsletter sent every 2 weeks containing the latest news Free breaking news sent via email Free access to Events Calendar Free access to LinkXpress new product services REGISTRATION IS FREE AND EASY! Sign in: Registered website members Username: