El Silencio Lodge Costa Rica Acquired by Viridi International Luxury Botique Cload Forest Resort in New Hands 
San Jose, Costa Rica – Viridi International Resorts SRL, a new upstart in the ultra-luxury boutique hotel and spa space, is pleased to announce the acquisition of El Silencio Lodge and Spa from Grupo Isilita, San Jose, Costa Rica. El Silencio Lodge is a luxury eco-tourist resort located in the high-altitude cloud forest just one hour from San Jose in Bajos del Toro. El Silencio was recently voted the Number 2 Top Resort in Central America by Condé Nast Reader's Choice Awards. 
El Silencio Lodge offers one of the best lodging and dining experiences in Costa Rica. The property's 16 intimate casitas and 6 two-bedroom villas offers visitors a one-of-a-kind refuge from a busy world. The resort's detached suites offer a private viewing deck of the surrounding cloud forest with traditional rocking chairs, and a private heated outdoor Jacuzzi. Viridi plans to add additional rooms and suites in the months and years ahead. 
The hotel's Las Ventanas Restaurant offers traditional Costa Rican dishes in addition to an eclectic assortment of entrees and appetizers with organic farm-to-table produce and fresh fish from two on-site fish farms. Guests can actively participate in the culinary experience by fishing for rainbow trout (Costa Rican Salmon), picking vegetables, collecting free-range chicken eggs, or venturing out to a community market before enjoying a fun-filled interactive cooking session with the resort's head chef. A second onsite restaurant, Hierbabuena, is open weekends during high season and offers a more casual menu for family gatherings. 
Onsite activities at El Silencio include horseback riding, zip lining, waterfall repelling, fishing, yoga, and more than 2 miles of hiking trails, all located on 500 acres of a pristine Costa Rican cloud forest with 3 breathtaking waterfalls, including one nearly 200 feet tall, all flanked by two national parks to ensure a quiet and serene experience. The resort's open space Esencia Spa offers a full array of rejuvenating treatments using indigenous Costa Rican rain forest oils and minerals. 
Viridi International Resorts SRL was founded by Boston-area media entrepreneur John Gormally with the goal of building a small- to medium-sized luxury boutique hotel/spa group with properties throughout Central and South America, the Caribbean and other highly sought-after destination spots across the globe. Akoya Hospitality LLC, New York, New York acted as advisor to Buyer. Resort Capital Partners, Charlotte, North Carolina acted as advisor to the seller. The sale price was not disclosed. 
Related link: www.elsilenciolodge.com Media Contact: John Gormally, 
Contact