Home 1397 
HANOVER, Germany – Cargo bikes made by Bikelecing (BKL) and fitted with Continental’s 48V eBike system are to make delivery processes more sustainable and convenient for the Spanish postal service ‘Correos’ in the future. Test runs of bikes with the Continental eBike system in five Spanish cities. – Photo Continental 
The BKL made e-Cargo bikes have a cargo capability of some 550 liters. Packages and mail can be transported conveniently with Conti’s 250W mid-motor over distances of up to 60 kilometers. Reduce emissions 
Since 2008, Correos has been relying increasingly on electric vehicles with regard to its environmental policy in order to reduce CO2 emissions. Last year the Spanish postal service started using an e-Cargo bike as a first pilot project in Sevilla. It impressed employees of the Spanish postal service so that the company is now continuing with this concept of making delivery processes more sustainable and convenient. 
In January 2018 Correos started using the three-wheeled cargo bikes in five Spanish cities for some three months. Sample models are being used in Madrid, Sevilla, Málaga, Cordoba and Granada for tests on reliability and everyday suitability. Correos regards an expansion to other regions and vehicles a realistic option. Selection of Conti eBike system 
The E-cargo bikes made by BKL with Continental’s 48V eBike system are another stage in this development. Test runs of bikes with the Conti system are taking place in five Spanish cities. “We are delighted that BKL has chosen Continental’s eBike system from among several drive systems and that we can therefore offer the Spanish postal service an efficient and sustainable mobility solution for everyday work,” reports Jörg Malcherek, head of the Continental Bicycle Systems segment. Victor Puig, Executive Managing Director at BKL, adds: “After tests with a variety of manufacturers, we opted for Continental’s eBike system because it delivered the results that best fitted with our vehicles. We were also impressed by the partnership-based cooperation with Continental.” More sustainable and more convenient 
The e-Cargo bikes by BKL with Continental’s 48V eBike system offer a high level of ride comfort thanks to the 250W mid-motor. The Cargo bike weighing a total of 38kg has a range of up to 60 kilometers with the integrated torque sensor ensuring efficient battery use. With the three-wheeled e-Cargo bikes, delivery agents can conveniently cross zones that were previously inaccessible, and therefore gain better access to customers’ apartments. Deliveries can be carried out more quickly, in a more environmentally friendly manner and more conveniently. Published by Jo Beckendorff on 22 Mar 2018