Mar 19, 2018 style="display:block; text-align:center;" data-ad-format="fluid" data-ad-layout="in-article" data-ad-client="ca-pub-4791668236379065" data-ad-slot="8840547438"> 
Early in the morning, Good Morning America will air a recent interview with Williams that marks her first interview since taking a leave of absence. US Weekly reports Williams as saying during the interview, “I had missed three doctors’ appointments with my endocrinologist… He’s the one who handles the thyroid and the Graves.” 
Asked how she’s feeling now, Williams says, “I’m functioning OK, I’m feeling a little weird but I’ll get through it. And I went in February and that’s where I found, whoa, your levels are way off.” 
Today doesn’t just mark Williams return, though. It also marks the 100th episode of season 10. MONDAY: Wendy's back where she belongs! #WendysBack pic.twitter.com/HKcNgpk9Wb 
— Wendy Williams (@WendyWilliams) March 18, 2018 
According to the show’s homepage, Dr. Oz will be stopping by Wendy’s studio to discuss her battle with Graves’ disease. The autoimmune disorder is one of the most common kinds of thyroid problems. According to WebMD, Graves’ disease is the leading cause of hyperthyroidism; a condition in which the thyroid produces excessive hormones. 
As usual, The Wendy Williams Show will be airing on Fox tomorrow at 10am ET/PT. If you don’t have cable or can’t get to a TV, you can watch Fox online, on your phone or on another streaming device like an Amazon Fire TV or Roku via one of the following over-the-top, cable-free, live-TV streaming services. They cost a monthly fee but all come with a free trial, so you can watch tonight’s show for free if you’re in a select market: 
FuboTV : Fox (live in 70-plus markets) is included in the “Fubo Premier” channel package, which is $19.99 per month for the first two months and $39.99 per month after that. It comes with a free 7-day trial, and you can watch on your computer via your browser, or on your phone, tablet or streaming device via the FuboTV app 
DirecTV Now : Fox (live in 39 markets) is included in all four channel packages, ranging from $35 to $70 per month. It comes with a free 7-day trial, and you can watch on your computer via your browser, or on your phone, tablet or streaming device via the DirecTV Now app 
Sling TV : Fox (live in 17 markets) is included in the “Sling Blue” channel package for $25 per month. It comes with a free 7-day trial, and you can watch on your computer via your browser, or on your phone, tablet or streaming device via the Sling TV app Read More From Heavy 