Home / policy / From Hussein to Assad: why Syria will not pass the Iraqi scenario From Hussein to Assad: why Syria will not pass the Iraqi scenario 7 hours ago policy 4 Views 
From Hussein to Assad: why Syria will not pass the Iraqi scenario 
Despite all the warnings of Russia, the Americans are preparing military provocation in Syria. In the Mediterranean and Red seas created by the shock of the marine group of ships with cruise missiles and Syria has intensified subversive groups controlled by the United States of terrorists who are trying to organize provocations with chemical weapons. Just such a scenario — with the prosecution of Saddam Hussein in the use of the chemical. weapons — the us used 15 years ago, 20 March 2003 the US to justify its invasion of Iraq. The war in Iraq was virtually destroyed, killing more than half a million Iraqis, millions more found themselves without a livelihood or fled the country, and the States lost 4.5 million soldiers. Now in Syria there are Russian troops and the States, if you dare turn up with their missiles, have much more to lose. It is because the provocation is likely to be limited to shots on Twitter. 
According to the Minister of defence of Russia Sergey Shoigu, last week in Syria has been thwarted three attempts of use of chemical weapons by militants. “There remains the possibility of militants of toxic substances, however, in order to accuse the Syrian forces of using chemical weapons. Three such attempts over the past week prevented,” he told the journalists. 
The statement took place against the background of the withdrawal of civilians from Eastern ghouta, where already managed to bring 80 thousand people and a rocket strike, which killed 37 people, another 35 injured. This was at the briefing said the head of the Russian Center for reconciliation of the warring parties (TSPVS) in Syria Yuri Evtushenko. According to him, 18:15 militants from the village of ain Terma made a rocket attack on the market Casque in the area of Germana. 
Meanwhile, on March 17 the General staff of the armed forces, said he sees signs of preparation by the United States and its allies of attacks on Syrian troops in the Mediterranean and Red seas have already created the shock of the marine group of ships with cruise missiles. This was reported on Saturday, the chief of the main operations Directorate of the General staff of the RF armed forces, Colonel-General Sergey rudskoy. According to him, the militants with the support of the US instructors are preparing provocations with toxic substances. “These provocations should be an occasion for drawing the United States and its allies of attacks on military and government targets in Syria”, — said the General. “We celebrate the signs of preparation for possible attacks. In the Eastern part of the Mediterranean, in the Persian Gulf and the Red sea created the strike group ships that carry cruise missiles”, — he said. “The question is, who is going to support these attacks the United States of America? Terrorists (TOSR) “dzhebhat an-Nusra” and their supporters rioting in East Huta?”, — added Rutskoi. See also: Against the new iron curtain! (About language post-Soviet propaganda) 
Despite the fact that the desire incursions are the Washington neocons, not even hiding. As previously noted by Bloomberg, last April one of the highest officials of the USA — Advisor to trump on national security, who made his name, rank and medals in the war in Iraq, one of McCain General Herbert McMaster advocated the introduction in Syria 50-Titicaca contingent, the scale had to meet the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Informed conservative journalist Mike Cernovich close to clashing with McMaster former chief White house strategist Stephen Bannon, argued that McMaster, along with his former commander in Iraq and former CIA Director David Petraeus developed the plan of entering to Syria 150-Titicaca contingent. In 2016, even before the appointment of the adviser to trump, McMaster said that the mistake was not the decision to invade Iraq, and the strategy used when the American armed forces. It Petraeus, as head of the CIA, first proposed to arm the Syrian rebels against Bashar al-Assad in 2012. during his command in Iraq, the General has developed a so-called Petraeus doctrine, the meaning of which — in the preparation of the U.S. army to large-scale and long war in remote locations on the planet with reliance, though not exclusive, on the local forces. A similar point of view in 2016 expressed Herbert McMaster. 
Actually, it is the Iraqi scenario develops and the political part of the question. USA virtual waving a vial of chemical weapons by Assad and provocations continue until they reach the goal. As then, Russia is blocking the UN resolution on open attack on Syria, then the Americans still want to hit. 
However, unlike Iraq under Hussein, the Syrians stand behind the Russians and the Iranians. Actually, the whole doctrine of the United States is based on the principle that we stand by, expressing concern at the UN and they safely destroy the country. Not to say that Russia didn’t give a reason the us military to think, only each “concern” has its own territory, judging by the response to the training, this time to Express “concerns” are already our military, not politicians, and the way they know how, and that was brought to Washington is available in the most obtuse American General form: destroy will not only missiles and aircraft, and their carriers, i.e. ships. In the end, at least for the moment, plans to launch a massive invasion any large contingent collapsed. 
“Noteworthy is the fact that at the present time, neither the Mediterranean sea nor on the approaches there is not a single carrier strike group (CSG) of the U.S. Navy. Moreover, in the present, or rather as of March 14, 2018, in the oceans, in the areas of operational purpose is, according to regularly track the dynamics of the American edition of Stratfor, only two Aug, headed by the aircraft carrier “Carl Vinson” and “Theodore Roosevelt”. Only one of them — “Roosevelt” — deployed in the region of the Persian Gulf, where its aircraft can, in principle, to get to Damascus. Of course, if they will allow the Russian s-400. 
This means that Americans are left with only one, traditional trump card — a missile strike with cruise missiles “Tomahawk” sea-launched from surface ships and submarines of the U.S. Navy. What, in fact, it is in the repeated warnings of the Russian General staff. The possibility of such a strike cannot be avoided completely. Though, because he would not be the first in this war. The previous salvo 59 “Tomahawk” with two destroyers, as we know, took place last year. However, its military value was dubious, since the struck the Syrian air base the next day resumed flights. 
In this case, allegedly planned by Americans, the bombing of the government quarters of Damascus may have completely zero impact. Similar to Yugoslavia, when American cruise missile exploded in the empty boxes of administrative buildings in Belgrade and the army barracks, where they had been evacuated in advance all the staff and even removed the equipment. And the effect is even more insignificant, the more limited will be the impact. 
Meanwhile, any signs of a large-scale retraction of American military missile ships in position for the application is really massive strike by hundreds of missiles is not observed. In any case, according to official command of the 6th fleet of the USA operating in the Mediterranean sea, cross confirm other open sources, there is currently a very limited number of American warships is of the order of 2 to 3 URO destroyers (USS Laboon DDG 58, USS Ross (DDG 71 USS Carney DDG-64). Several shock combat units of the same rank deployed as part of the 5th American fleet operating in the Persian Gulf and the Red sea, and can also be involved in the missile attack. In principle, this was sufficient to cause a limited missile strike on the model sayramskogo with not so much military as symbolic”, — says in a research note the journal “Military review”. See also: Putin warned Netanyahu against the spread of the conflict in Syria 
In fact, US concerns to “the payback” — this is the main difference from fifteen years ago. In Yugoslavia, Iraq and Libya, Americans are not afraid of anyone or anything, but because it was bombed and invaded without regard for anyone whatsoever. It took not much time, and today they sit “concern” to the UN, threatening another missile-the Twitter blow. However, and this blow have yet to muster the courage to strike — and suddenly the Russians really drown, what’s next? 
It turns out that Russia’s entry into the Syrian conflict at one point resets the inevitability of the destruction of any state at will “leader”. And that’s exactly what we do not forgive, inventing new Rodchenkova, Skrobala or anyone else. However, dreaming about forgiveness the other side is also getting smaller. 
RIA Katyusha © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share