19 March 2018, 01:00 Presidential candidate's representative detained in Rostov-on-Don 
Anton Prikhodko, a member of the precinct election commission (PEC), who represented the interests of presidential candidate Ksenia Sobchak in Rostov-on-Don, was detained after he filmed the vote counting process. This was reported by the presidential candidate's office. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that on March 18, the voting took place at the presidential election in Russia . Observers reported numerous violations in Rostov-on-Don . 
Anton Prikhodko, a member of the PEC with a consultative vote, filmed the process of vote counting at the Rostov polling station No. 1780, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was informed by Anastasia Shevchenko, a coordinator of the Ksenia Sobchak's local office. 
"The PEC members threatened Anton Prikhodko that if he did not hide his mobile phone, then he would be removed. Later, the PEC members called the police, and Anton Prikhodko was taken to the police department No. 3," Anastasia Shevchenko said. 
Afterwards, according to her, Anton Prikhodko was taken to the Kirov Magistrate Court. 
Anastasia Shevchenko has also reported that a policeman referred to an "instruction of the PEC chair" and did not let her enter the polling station to watch the vote counting. 
  Author: Konstantin Volgin ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; South Federal District; Rostov region; Russia All news 
Today, the Supreme Court (SC) of Chechnya has upheld the decision of the Staropromyslovsky District Court of Grozny to prolong the arrest of Oyub Titiev, the "Caucasian Knot" correspondent was informed by Pyotr Zaikin, an advocate of Oyub Titiev. March 19, 2018 13:23 
Despite the dissatisfaction of Sochi residents with coercion to participate in the presidential election, no official complaints were filed by voters, the opposition reports. March 19, 2018 09:42 Grozny state servants claim being forced to take part in a rally 
In the evening on March 18, in Grozny, about 70,000 people came for a rally dedicated to the anniversary of the Crimea's entry into Russia, the Chechen authorities reported. Teachers and students claimed being obliged to take part in the rally. March 19, 2018 05:26 Volgograd Communists call elections falsified 
Observers from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) have filed "dozens of complaints" following the results of the voting at the presidential election. On March 20, the Communists plan to hold a sanctioned picket against falsifications of the election outcome. March 19, 2018 02:10 Observer announces three attempts of ballot stuffing at a polling station in Kaspiysk 
Marat Ismailov, an observer from the "Yabloko" Party, registered three facts of ballot stuffing (throw-in) at a polling station in Kaspiysk. According to him, when he tried to stop a ballot stuffing, unidentified people wanted to take him outside, but the police intervened. The final protocol was also drawn up with violations, Marat Ismailov also noted. TOPICS OF THE DAY