Home / policy / The killing of the Moscow region The killing of the Moscow region 2 hours ago policy 2 Views 
In Volokolamsk broke the Cup: a terrible garbage dump (instead of closed under the Balashikha) people were ready to break and the head of the district, and even the Governor. The latter was forced to retreat to the cries of hundreds of people “Shame!”. Good that the boss got off easy. Show completely… 
In principle, the authorities of the Moscow region is fully to blame for the current environmental disaster and are responsible for the suffering of the residents of the capital region. Because I didn’t want to do the last almost decade and a half to solve this crucial problem. 
I am a living witness to the triumph of the “garbage mafia” in Moscow region, which I am sure has always been connected with the management of the capital region’s commercial interests. And if in short — all the concerned officials for all these years is just stupid “nagging grandmother” without thinking about the people. 
Around 2006-2007, I was asked as Deputy from the Moscow region to organize in the state Duma presentation of new technologies on waste RECYCLING. I sent out invitations to the Mayor of Moscow, Government of Moscow region and a number of heads of regions. Were about 25. The presentation was hosted by the head of the largest in Germany and Europe company (can not remember the name), which throughout Europe has built plants for processing of UNSORTED GARBAGE method of autoclaving (my name) . The technology is very simple: the trash comes in huge tanks, where it is some time treated with superheated steam under great pressure. All processing is conducted in closed loop (according to the type of reactors at nuclear power plants), without any external emissions and pollution. After heat treatment (kills all bacteria) sterile debris automatically (share of manual sorting less than 10%) is separated into metals, plastics, glass and organics, plus 3-7% of earth, sand and mortar. A sanitary zone around such plants is almost zero meters. The processing capacity is 1 million cubic meters per year (enough for several districts of the Moscow region). 
Showing samples of the “autoclaved” garbage, the German offered to ask him questions. I personally witnessed about such a dialogue: (- the participants of the presentation; f — the representative of the company). 
U. How you should crush a cube of garbage? F. we in Germany and Europe is approximately 1€. W. Oh, no, it is very expensive, we are cheaper! F. Wait, I’m talking about Germany, and in Russia, let us count together… 
U. how much is your plant“turnkey”? F. 72 million€. W. No, it is very expensive, we do not have that kind of money! F. Wait, but I did not say that we are counting on your money, we are ready to build factories themselves, at their own expense! W. And what do you need from us? F. Allocation of land, access roads, supply of energy, water and other infrastructure and contracts for the recycling of 15 years. W. Well, you give! F. But it’s not free! We are ready to give you for that 50% stake and to ensure the profitability of the plants in the first year of their operation. 
I suddenly noticed that during the discussion people began to slowly disperse. German, too, watching this scene blankly turned his head and looked hopefully at me. Type “well, at least you explain what’s happening, why it is not interesting?” I have to explain anything to him could not, therefore, “caught” almost a breast of one of the “experts” and demanded an explanation. Embarrassed and averting his gaze, Deputy head of one of the districts said: “Gennady, you naive people! For the garbage business — this money is worth, so many respected people fed! And you want to ruin everything? It will not work!” 
Honestly, to me this situation angered (I was “sick” in his village to fight against littering of streets, alleys and ponds and quietly hated the inaction of the authorities on the subject), and I decided to go straight to the Governor Gromov. Then we have with him was still quite normal working and personal relationship. Told him about all this mess and asked the team to consider bringing cleanliness and order in the suburbs. The Governor was short: “Write me a letter, I will give all the necessary instructions!” His word kept the Governor, and soon serious resolution type “Urgently to study, to work, give suggestions, etc.” get on my Deputy’s request. Well, then I thought, it seems like a big job done! It took a couple of years, I routine is a little rusty about to “study and report”, when suddenly I was called by the Director of the German company and asked if there was any response from the administration area. It turned out, no one in all that time never asked. Surprised and annoyed, I went back to Gromov. His reaction to my new story was even more rigid. On my fresh letter he wrote terrible resolution, such as “immediately to work, to take personal control,to deal with the guilty in the manifest negligence and it is urgent to give suggestions”. “Now all, cheers, will begin to put things in the suburbs now!” — happily I thought. Alas, vain and premature. It has been more than 12 years and things are there. Trash mafia was stronger than governors, prosecutors and all the other chiefs. Or maybe it’s just that they were in proportion? See also: But in "Rosnano" Chubais... 
Now, in the current situation. I was told that in the suburbs will start (less than 15 years!) to build musoroszhigayushchikh plants as much as $ 250 million. But this is the last century. What is waste incineration? It’s just a decrease in 5 times with turning to ash with a higher degree of risk. For waste incineration plant need the same landfills, sanitary zones etc. Roughly speaking, instead of today’s 50 conventional landfills in the region will remain 10, but with much more dangerous to the health of residents waste. Moscow and New Moscow (and there are the same problems) will gradually kill, turning green areas into a lifeless space. In addition, the emissions from the burning of debris is also very poisonous. And if in Europe, fighting with them by installing expensive and often replaceable filters, you can imagine how they (the filters) will be “saving” in Russia. 
It is possible that incineration is a cheaper method of destruction debris. But in this rich and populous region Moscow region, can without problems use of even more expensive, but absolutely safe and advanced technology. However, the garbage mafia has not been canceled. She is always there with the power, merging with her in a death to the people of the region embrace. Residents of Volokolamsk, Balashikha, Kolomna (Volovici) and some other districts of the Moscow region a good understanding of what I’m talking about. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share