Home / policy / Kazakhstan – the waiting West the revolution Kazakhstan – the waiting West the revolution 7 hours ago policy 3 Views 
Russia will never cease to be in the midst of a merciless cold war declared by the West. In modern conditions the main bet is placed on the intoxication of youth in the countries of the former Soviet Union. We all see what you’ve done to the nationalists of the countries of Baltic, Ukraine. Now turn the closest ally of Russia – Kazakhstan. 

Today the education system in many post-Soviet republics built written by Western theorists and textbooks based on the education of hatred of Russia. The historical facts are interpreted to emphasize the “colonial” and “expansionist” Russia’s actions, starting already from the time of the Golden Horde. Russian language everywhere is etched from the system of secondary education, even in countries where it is spoken by up to 90 percent of the population. 
Not surprisingly, when this is done rapidly raminidase Moldova or Azerbaijan, where Russia is called the enemy number two after Armenia. But when it is done in pohvalama its inter-ethnic tolerance in Kazakhstan (where the number of hours of teaching Russian language is decreasing from year to year), it is surprising. 
Let’s start with the falsification of history. For example, excerpts from an article by historian Kazakhstan Nazira Nurtazina. “The councils were guided by the principle of “the best Kazakh – dead Kazakh”. That was intended famines, concentration camps, etc . But deceit and demonism of the Soviet Communists was that they are not stated openly and honestly about the true intentions,” writes Nurtazin. The historian concludes that “by reason of these actions of the Soviets happened another great tragedy of the Kazakhs is “Kazakh Exodus, forced large-scale emigration to China, Afghanistan, Iran and other countries the best minds, scientists, politicians, theologians”. 
All this, in the end, resulted in “the conversion of the remaining, miraculously surviving part of the people in the outcast, slave and exploited minority in their own land”. If the reader thinks that this is just words, it is not so. In Kazakhstan and Ukraine, a monument to the Holodomor, which consciously or unconsciously, but are rendering the anti-Russian ideology. 
Or, for example, the sample more accessible to the inexperienced mind of a school of creativity from those that appear from time to time on the Internet. “Russian, from a political point of view, are the main obstacle on the way of Kazakhstan’s development. You should make inevitable the conclusion about the necessity of reducing the number of Russians in Kazakhstan. And best of all bringing their stay in the country is close to zero. This is the only way to protect Kazakhstan in the present and future of “voluntary” joining to Russia”, – writes one of the authors on FB. He proposes inducing the Russians to migrate to Russia or direct “deportation” from the country, in particular, the introduction of discriminatory measures in employment and the elimination of the Russian language, Kazakh as a competitor. See also: Smolny is "the course of the revolution" 
If the reader thinks that this is the same word, it is not so. “The departure of Russian continues, and it is clear that the reason for the departure is a concern with his Russian position in connection with the attack on the Russian language, – said Pravda.Ru Aleksandra Dokuchaeva, head of the Department of Diaspora and migration, Institute for CIS countries . – The parents of Russian-speaking children say, for example, that Russian schools are much more condensed than Kazakh, that is, the conditions for study more complex. Nevertheless, in contrast to Ukraine, where clearly there was a displacement, in Kazakhstan, while at the secondary level the need for Russian schools being closed.” 
The need may be closed, but how? Here is an excerpt from the history textbook for the fifth class of high school: “the Soviet government confiscated all the livestock of the Kazakhs, thus deliberately exposing the people to starvation, and to the last watched people die. Using it was in no hurry. The Soviet Union did not need the Kazakh people with their land and cattle, here wanted to relocate other people and to break camp here”. 
It is not surprising that against the background of this cultivation of the image of the “Russian enemy” in Kazakhstan has grown up young people who will soon be jumping and Kazakh to shout “who does not jump, the Muscovite”. You doubt? Here are excerpts from the writings of Kazakh school graduates: “All peoples have for many years tried to win over Kazakhstan, but the Kazakh people were forced to obey. It is because of Russia, the Kazakhs lost their culture and tradition.” That’s where the Shoe pinches. It would not be Russian – would not be problems of the Kazakhs nor with language, nor with other aspects of the revival of the Kazakh people, nor the economy, which Putin allegedly is now trying to re-colonize via EurAsEC. 
See also: Dosym Satpayev: the Ukrainian conflict has led to a crack in the multi-vector policy Astana 
What is surprising, but comments such polemical articles basically revolve around the question, someone who used the colonized and whose land it is. But is the question now? Let’s leave the dead to bury their dead. The question is: Kazakhs and Russians are neighbors, so must live in this world peacefully, not hating each other. 
Who is the customer for such research, textbooks, television programs, if Nazarbayev is suggesting the tolerance of the Kazakhstani people? In principle, it is quite logical seen the desire of the West to open a second front in the South of Russia. This all ready, probably, the money has already been allocated. The image of the enemy in the face of Russia is very convenient and the local elite, no matter how “Pro” it was. The nationalist elite expects and Nazarbayev ever pass powers. See also: Two quiet months for Russia 
In the former Soviet Union (by the way, and Russia is no exception) are the processes of consolidation of the ultra-liberal and nationalist forces, said Pravda.Ru Dmitry Alexandrov, expert of the Russian Institute for strategic studies . – The ultra-liberal forces, which adhere to Western views, and the nationalists who hold positions not only anti-Russian, but overall, the greatness of its titular nationality. Where these trends are more active, some less active. The government of Kazakhstan is trying to achieve a certain balance, although the nationalists, especially in intellectual circles, the liberals are trying very successfully to promote their ideas”. 
Assisted by various Western organizations, foundations, and sponsoring the publication of these textbooks. Dmitry Aleksandrov considers that it is not necessary to extol the merits of Nazarbayev in his national policy. “The expulsion of the Slavic population from the territory of Kazakhstan was promoted and the position of the Kazakh authorities, because there was a bet on the dominance of the titular nationalities.” 
Recent statistics suggests that the idea of a Eurasian Union is a great response among the citizens of CIS countries – from 65 to 80 percent of respondents support it, but mainly among the older generation. Young people are at best indifferent to these processes, in the worst – sees itself as part of European, Turkish or Chinese political projects. The conclusion is that Russia loses at this stage of the cold war on the West. To counter this, you can only similar work at different levels, including social networks, creating a pool of bloggers and Internet journalists, which should shape the post-Soviet population a positive image of Russia, its economic attractiveness, which undoubtedly present. 
Often have to remember that we have a more positive experience of coexistence – to take at least the development of virgin lands and Baikonur. I must say that the famine, which was in Kazakhstan were of Russian farmers who have taken away land and not only of the nomadic Kazakhs, who were put on these lands and who did not know how to handle them. 
There are other measures of influence on the minds of young people, in particular the sponsorship of student programs, grants, scholarships. And, of course, need to get rid of Russian chauvinism that exists at the household level, even highly educated people, namely that “the Kazakhs are stupid, and the fact that they have today, they would be unable to acquire without Russian assistance.” 
Early this spring, it was instructed from Astana, the presidential administration, to return the signs in Russian on the streets of Kazakh cities. Crimea gave such a push, has shown that it is impossible to ignore, at least a quarter of the population living in Kazakhstan of the Russian population. 
© 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share