  De Vere Selsdon Estate unveils grand transformation De Vere Selsdon Estate, in Croydon – part of Principal Hotel Company’s De Vere portfolio of country estate hotels and modern event spaces - has unveiled the results of its £5 million refurbishment.   project includes the creation of a new restaurant, Burr & Co. coffee shop, orangery and reception area; as well as the full refurbishment of 54 bedrooms and six meeting rooms to create a hotel that marries 21st Century style and comfort with stunning original Victorian features. 
At the heart of the 200-acre estate is an elegant Victorian mansion house which has been returned to its former glory with a top-to-toe renovation to bring it in line with the new De Vere brand standards. 
The 54 refurbished bedrooms showcase the brand’s distinctly British aesthetic with a subtle pallet of heritage colours combined with soft tweeds and tan leather to create a home-from-home environment for guests. 
This investment includes the creation of a new Presidential Suite, which features a large bedroom and separate sitting room; guests can also enjoy a well-stocked private bar, fluffy robes and slippers and upgraded luxury toiletries. A further 96 bedrooms will be refurbished in the next phase of works. 
The new reception is bright and airy and creates a real sense of welcome, whilst a new orangery has also been added, where afternoon tea takes centre stage. The hotel’s meeting rooms have all been refreshed and upgraded with the latest technology to reflect the company’s recently launched Smart Space meetings concept. 
Located in the mansion house, The Cedar Suite with its sculptured ceilings and chandeliers creates a striking atmosphere for larger events and weddings, up to 200 guests, whilst those looking to book a smaller event space, could opt for the Selsdon Suite; a popular choice with its light, airy feel and garden views. 
The new destination restaurant, 1042, looks out onto the 18-hole Championship Golf Course which surrounds the property. The design here complements the wider hotel environment with a clean and contemporary finish, with monochrome tiling and copper accents. 
“We’re delighted with the results of the refurbishment," comments general manager, Matthew Brierley, who has been with Principal Hotel Company for over 10 years. "The makeover has breathed new life into what is a landmark Victorian estate. It’s a very exciting time to take over the reins as General Manager and our team is perfectly positioned to deliver a memorable experience for our guests. 
“Whether it’s a large scale corporate event; a romantic getaway for two; a show-stopping wedding or an evening celebration, the hotel and our expert team will deliver an exemplary experience that is tailored to each guest’s unique requirements.”