  Portable Ultrasound Transforms Cardiovascular   22 Mar 2018 A cardiovascular-dedicated, maneuverable ultrasound (US) system addresses the increasing demand for quality echo exams in diverse clinical environments. The Siemens Healthineers (Erlangen, Germany) Acuson Bonsai system is an ultra-portable US device intended for routine cardiovascular echo exams, providing powerful imaging with advanced image optimization at the touch of a button. Ergonomic user design and a small footprint of the laptop and mobile cart offer flexibility and maneuverability in distinct scanning locations. The system automatically adjusts the US image, eliminating the need for manual optimization on the part of the sonographer. Single crystal 3T technology, paired with 12-beam and 128-channel signal processing provides precise imaging results, with automated protocols reducing scan times by up to 43% and reducing keystrokes by up to 75%, thus improving both workflows and patient throughput. Raw data capabilities improve scan times and allow for further flexibility with image optimization and measurements after the acquisition. In addition, Acuson Bonsai can utilize several advanced imaging algorithms so as to optimize routine echocardiograms and cardiovascular workflows. The Siemens Healthineers Acuson Bonsai comes fully loaded with a complete set of user-friendly cardiology applications developed jointly with Mindray Medical International (Shenzen, China), such as Auto EF for semi-automatic ejection fraction measurements, Auto IMT for automatic intima-media thickness measurements, stress echo with left ventricular opacification (LVO), and tissue tracking quantitative analysis by measuring Strain/Strain Rate. The system is compatible with a comprehensive set of 14 transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) transducers. “By adding the Acuson Bonsai to our portfolio, we’ve responded to the needs of our customers by implementing clinical optimization, offering standard cardiology presets, and creating a design that provides the flexibility to scan virtually anywhere,” said Peter Pellerito, senior vice-president of US at Siemens Healthineers North America, “making the ACUSON Bonsai ideal for transforming the care delivery of routine echo exams in fast-paced environments.” Read the full article by registering today, it's FREE! Register now for FREE to MedImaging.net and get complete access to news and events that shape the world of Radiology. Free digital version edition of Medical Imaging International sent by email on regular basis Free print version of Medical Imaging International magazine (available only outside USA and Canada). Free and unlimited access to back issues of Medical Imaging International in digital format Free Medical Imaging International Newsletter sent every 2 weeks containing the latest news Free breaking news sent via email Free access to Events Calendar Free access to LinkXpress new product services REGISTRATION IS FREE AND EASY! Sign in: Registered website members Username: