ndtv.com March 23, 2018 
Have you ever met someone who left you engulfed in a cloud of perfume long after they’ve passed by? Not only do they leave trails of fragrance in their wake, they make that very scent their signature. So the next time you smell it, you instantly associate it with them. Now don’t you wish you could be them and have your own sweet-smelling signature scent? No, it isn’t absurd. You too could be smelling like a bed of roses with the whole neighbourhood wondering what you’re wearing. All you need to do is find your signature scent and what better day to do that than on International Fragrance Day. 
1. Know Levels Of Strength 
To decide what strength of perfume to pick depends on four categories of fragrance, each with a different longevity. According to Design Mom, Eau de Cologne is a three to five percent mix of oil in alcohol and water, which wears quite lightly. Eau de Toilette is about four to eight percent of oil mixed with alcohol. Eau de Perfume is the strongest of common fragrance picks with 15 to 18 percent oil in alcohol and lasts for hours. The fourth category and the rarest is perfume, which has 15 to 30 percent oil in alcohol and is also much more expensive than the rest. The more perfume oil, the more lasting and the fragrance. Hence, depending on how quickly fragrance wears off from your body, choose your category accordingly. 
2. Know Your Preferences 
All of us are inclined to particular types of scents, whether they be the smell of bouquets of daises or lavender bath salts. Thus, to find which way you swing on the scale of fragrance families, these are the four categories – Floral, Fruity, Oriental and Woody. If you like the smell of freshly cut grass, spring roses and or lilies, your taste falls in the floral category. If it is oranges, lemons, grapefruits and peaches, your preference fall in the refreshing fruity category. Like the deeper smell of vanilla, cinnamon, cranberries or spice? Then the oriental or spicy category is where your preferences lie. Finally, if you like the smell of bergamot or patchouli, it’s the woody category for you. Fragrances are often bucketed in these categories and depending on which scent is your preference, you can pick accordingly. 
3. Test It Well 
The most important thing to remember when purchasing a perfume is trying it. Don’t go blindly by reviews you read and scents your friends recommend. Make a trip to the department store and spray it on your wrists, then leave it for the rest of the day. Fragrances are divided into top, middle and base notes so if you smell it and decide you adore it in a few seconds, that’s just the top note talking. Through the course of the day, let the scent react with your body and slowly, you will begin to notice it smells differently. That’s when the middle and base note come into effect so once the day is over, then decide if the perfume is a keeper or not. ALSO READ