info@volkswagen-sustainability.com Attachments: 
The Volkswagen Group deepens its cultural engagement and its collaboration with Nationalgalerie – Staatliche Museen zu Berlin with the introduction of “VOLKSWAGEN ART 4 ALL”, a new opportunity for people to explore the Hamburger Bahnhof – Museum für Gegenwart – Berlin free of charge. Further to the premiere on 5th April, the collection and exhibitions at Hamburger Bahnhof can be enjoyed during a free visit between 4 and 8 pm on the first Thursday of every month. The “VOLKSWAGEN ART 4 ALL” programme also includes guided tours in different languages as well as special tours for children and further events as platforms to discuss current social topics. 
Udo Kittelmann, Director of Nationalgalerie says: “We express our greatest thanks to our long-term partner Volkswagen, that has underlined its social responsibility by offering visitors of the Hamburger Bahnhof a cost-free option on the first Thursday afternoon of every month.” 
Benita von Maltzahn, Director Global Corporate Citizenship of Volkswagen Group adds: “Culture is a fundamental part of a vibrant society as it drives individual creativity and curiosity about new perspectives. That is the reason for our commitment to provide as many people as possible with access to the arts and culture. We would like to wish all guests an inspiring experience of the Hamburger Bahnhof.” 
“VOLKSWAGEN ART 4 ALL” represents the next chapter in more than five years of partnership between the Volkswagen Group and Nationalgalerie – Staatliche Museen zu Berlin. The Group is among the key supporters of the globally renowned Berlin institution. It has helped to realize a number of projects including the most recent results of the fruitful cooperation: the exhibition „Wanderlust“, which is going to be opened in May at the Alte Nationalgalerie, and the “Rolling Studio”, which enables the education team of Nationalgalerie to leave the actual museum and use different environments to connect children and teenagers with ideas of art and creativity. 
Being a partner of the arts and culture is a vital element of Volkswagen Group’s sustainable social and cultural engagement. As an ongoing effort, the Group paves the way for new experiences of creative works. How they emerge and what they stir is of crucial importance for the exchange of views and ideas within a forward-looking society. Supporting leading institutions and protago-nists in the international sphere of art and culture, Volkswagen also works closely with the Museum of Modern Art (MoMa) and MoMA PS1 in New York as well as the Victoria & Albert Museum (V&A) in London. Furthermore, the Group is actively engaged in strengthening cultural exchange between Europe and China, for example with the Volkswagen Group of China as partner of a multi-layered education programme for young music talents and young music lovers in China.