Home » News » HyperX Expands FURY DDR4 and Impact DDR4 Product Lines HyperX Expands FURY DDR4 and Impact DDR4 Product Lines News 
HyperX, the gaming division of Kingston Technology Company, Inc., today announced the addition of higher frequency memory modules to the HyperX FURY DDR4 DIMM and HyperX Impact DDR4 SODIMM product lines. FURY DDR4 DIMMs and Impact DDR4 SODIMMs both offer automatic Plug N Play overclocking functionality. FURY DDR4 is now available up to 3466MHz1 and Impact DDR4 is now available up to 3200MHz. Both product lines are available as single modules and as various kits configurations from 8GB to 64GB. 
HyperX FURY DDR4 is a cost-efficient high-performance upgrade for Intel and AMD’s latest platforms for faster video editing, 3D rendering, gaming and AI processing. It features Plug N Play which enables automatic memory overclocking at standard DDR4 1.2v settings. The new FURY DDR4 additions are available in black, red and white low-profile heat spreader colour options that feature the stylish signature FURY asymmetrical heat spreader design with black PCB. 
HyperX is also expanding its Impact DDR4 SODIMM family with new higher speeds in capacities up to 16GB modules and kit configurations up to 64GB. Voltages are based on standard 1.2V values, and support XMP profiles for easy overclocking. Upgrading using the Plug N Play feature allows for automatic overclocking to the highest published frequency within the system speed allowance. 
“We are excited to expand our HyperX DDR4 offerings for users who want to maximize their experience with simple Plug N Play memory,” said Adrien Viaud, EMEA Field Application Engineer, HyperX. “The new additions to FURY DDR4 and Impact DDR4 are ideal for someone looking for premium components with faster speeds, high performance with maximum reliability and great aesthetics, all for a minimal investment.” 
Availability HyperX FURY DDR4 DIMMs and HyperX Impact DDR4 SODIMMs are now available through HyperX’s network of retail and e-tail outlets. For more information on HyperX DDR4 and global availability, please visit the Memory webpage. 
HyperX FURY DDR4 Specifications