View Daniella Lea's LinkedIn Profile 
The St. Regis Atlanta, an unparalleled in-town resort located in the elegant enclave of Buckhead, is pleased to announce the appointment of Daniella Lea to the role of pastry chef for the property. Lea has almost a decade of culinary experience working at five-star hotels and restaurants from Argentina and Chile to Venezuela. In her new role as a pastry chef, Lea will be responsible for developing and crafting delectable desserts for guests, as the resort aims to incorporate international influences to accompany its increasing global exposure. 
Lea began her culinary career as a pastry cook at Hotel Austral Bahia Blanca in Bahia Blanca, Argentina. After a year in the position, she moved to Caracas, Venezuela to be a pastry cook at Bucare Restaurant for another year before transitioning to the role of pastry supervisor at Four Seasons Caracas. She spent two years as the pastry supervisor at Amapola Restaurant in Caracas, as well as a year as a pastry chef at the Renaissance Caracas La Castellana Hotel, a Marriott International hotel. Before beginning the role of pastry chef at The St. Regis Atlanta, she spent a couple of years as the pastry chef at The Ritz-Carlton, Santiago in Santiago, Chile. 
Lea received several years of the best culinary education in South America, France and the United States, including Colegio de Cocineros Gato Dumas in Buenos Aires, Argentina; Le Cordon Bleu in Paris, France; and L'ecole Valrhona in New York. She was able to learn from some of the most successful pastry chefs, which allowed her to delve into flavours, textures, colours and presentation, as well as food safety, quality and consistency. 
Combining timeless sophistication with an unrivalled dimension of luxury, The St. Regis Atlanta is redefining elegance and setting a new standard of service in Atlanta. The 26-floor development features 151 luxuriously-appointed guest rooms and suites, 53 residences, more than 16,000 square feet of contemporary meeting and event space, world-class culinary options, a state-of-the-art fitness facility, an exquisite 40,000-square-foot Pool Piazza and Poolside Café & Bar, and a 7,800-square-foot Remède Spa. Located in the exclusive Buckhead community, The St. Regis Atlanta is ideally situated within walking distance of Atlanta's finest specialty shopping, restaurants, art galleries, and landmark corporations.