Home / Society / The inhabitant of Serpukhov, whose husband cut off hands, made dentures in Germany The inhabitant of Serpukhov, whose husband cut off hands, made dentures in Germany 20 mins ago Society 0 Views 
The inhabitant of Serpukhov Margarita Gracheva, whose husband, Dmitri cut off his hands, returned to Russia from Germany, where she made two prosthesis for right arm. Now she will undergo a rehabilitation course for the left hand, which managed to recover. 
Ahead of rehabilitation for the left hand in St. Petersburg. In Germany I made two prosthesis (one more functional, the second is easier, for the rough work). 
A huge thank you to everyone who helped me to adapt to a new life! Although, this is just the beginning, the dentures need to adjust and learn to manage them! 
Almost a month Rita Grachev and accompanying her mother, Inna Vladimirovna held in the German town of Duderstadt, where the orthopedic factory and specialized clinic. Rita’s mom told “KP” that the German experts spent every day trying, and even helped Rita develop a left hand. See also: Ksenia Sobchak seriously hurt her husband 
“Initially, we chose from three options of prosthesis, – said Inna sheykina. – There is a modern and very functional model “Bibione”. It even allows you to work a computer. But it is very fragile and often breaks. When the doctors found out that Rita’s two young children, they recommended to do two prosthesis. Functional, “Bebionic” to make out and for some fine work. But for everyday life homework – a simple and robust prosthesis, which employs only the thumb and index finger”.“Komsomolskaya Pravda” See also: Belarusian universities will accept the certificates LDNR 
Dmitry Grachev is now under arrest, instituted against him criminal case under part 2 of article 111 of the criminal code of Russian Federation (“Deliberate causing of heavy harm to health”). The maximum penalty is ten years imprisonment. 
Dmitry Grachev cut the wife hands in December, it happened because of jealousy, Marguerite wanted to divorce him. In October, Dmitry brought the Margarita to the woods, where they asked about relationships with men, holding a knife to her throat. After this, Margarita went to the police, but the district only spent with Dmitry preventive conversation. This district subsequently dismissed, against him a criminal case of negligence. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share