Press Release 23 March 2018 Good Tourism Practices to Advance Sustainable Development in the Americas 
Madrid, Spain – Concrete examples of how to advance sustainable development through tourism take centre stage in the first joint publication between the World Tourism Organization (UNWTO) and the Organization of American States (OAS). ' Tourism and the Sustainable Development Goals: Good Practices in the Americas ' provides 14 case studies from across the region on why tourism ranks high among the economic sectors better positioned to enable the Agenda 2030 for Sustainable Development and its 17 Sustainable Development Goals. 
Ranging from tourism projects to strengthen the peace process in Colombia to initiatives in the heart of the Peruvian Amazon, addressing climate change in Mexico or providing insight into management and sustainability systems in Honduras or Panama. A total of 14 case studies portray the contribution of tourism to advance the Sustainable Development Goals in the Americas. 
' Tourism and the Sustainable Development Goals: Good Practices in the Americas ' recommends to pay critical attention to tourism management as well as to strengthening partnerships between national and international public and private stakeholders, as well as local communities. The report also addresses the emergence of a more responsible traveler and how destinations in the region should integrate resource efficiency and multi-stakeholder involvement in their policies, actions and initiatives. 
"With more than 200 million international tourists who traveled to the Americas in 2017, tourism can and must play a significant role in delivering solutions for sustainable development in the region", said UNWTO Secretary-General, Zurab Pololikashvili. "I am grateful for the partnership with the Organization of American States and am confident that together we will support tourism's role in the sustainable development agenda of the region up to and beyond 2030", he added. 
According to the Executive Secretary for Integral Development of the OAS, Kim Osborne, this joint effort "provides greater awareness on how tourism can help address poverty alleviation, protect biodiversity and cultural heritage, and support community development in the Americas". 
Authorities at all levels in the Americas have identified tourism as a priority sector to promote economic development and diversification and countries across the region are adopting new legislation and policies in this direction. Against this backdrop, ' Tourism and the Sustainable Development Goals: Good Practices in the Americas ' provides insight into how a common approach - including policy makers, private sector, tourists and the development community - can catalyze sustainable development through tourism. 
The report was presented during the 2018 Inter-American Congress of Ministers and High-level Authorities of Tourism, under the theme 'Connecting the Americas through sustainable tourism'. 
Contact