Industry Update Press Release 23 March 2018 Omni Hotels & Resorts Kicks Off The Next Installment Of Its Omni Originals Program With Morel Mushrooms The Soil Food Delivers Fresh, Earthy Dishes to Omni Properties Brand-wide 
DALLAS – During the month of April, guests at Omni Hotels & Resorts can enjoy the latest rendition of the Omni Originals culinary series which will showcase morel mushrooms as the cornerstone of this installment's menu. The program, which launched in 2017, is set to surprise and delight guests' palates through innovative dishes and cocktails. 
Items on the specialty menu play on the growing popularity of plant-based dining. These dishes include: Charred Forager's Toast : morel mushrooms, garlic, white wine, asparagus, burrata and tarragon Earth Day Eggs : morel deviled eggs, smoked salmon, pumpernickel rye, pickled morel, radish Spring Skins : new season potato skins, smoked chicken, spinach, morels, Gruyère, red chili 
To toast the warmer weather, Omni created the Morel Smash which is a blend of Cruzan Rum, strawberries, lemon juice, morel syrup and rhubarb bitters; and the Morel Old Fashioned which is comprised of morel-infused Elijah Craig Bourbon, house morel-infused honey syrup and angostura bitters. 
Additionally, to commemorate Earth Day, Omni properties across the country will celebrate Mother Nature on Saturday, April 21 with morel mushroom-themed lobby activations for guests to enjoy. 
As each season rolls in, Omni will announce its next rendition of the Omni Originals program. Each promotion will focus on a specific ingredient or culinary theme that will create flavorful and exciting menu options at properties across the brand. 
More information on Omni Originals can be found at https://www.omnihotels.com/culinary/omni-originals/morel-mushrooms . Follow Omni Hotels & Resorts at www.Facebook.com/OmniHotels , Twitter.com/OmniHotels and Instagram.com/OmniHotels . 
Contact Phone: 972-871-5556 About Omni Hotels & Resorts 
Omni Hotels & Resorts creates genuine, authentic guest experiences at 60 distinct luxury hotels and resorts in leading business and leisure destinations across North America. With more than 25 iconic golf courses and 16 award-winning spas featured in dynamic locales nationwide, every Omni proudly opens its doors to share the true spirit of its destination. Reflected through local color, personalized service, unique wellness options, signature restaurants and creative culinary offerings, Omni leaves a lasting impression with every guest and a heightened level of recognition and rewards delivered through its Select Guest loyalty program. As a founding member of the Global Hotel Alliance, Select Guest is further expanded through the DISCOVERY® loyalty program offering members additional global benefits. Omni is committed to reducing hunger and is on a mission through its Say Goodnight to Hunger initiative to provide millions of meals each year for food banks to feed children, families and seniors in communities in which it operates. For information or to book accommodations, visit omnihotels.com or call 1-800-The-Omni.