Ascend Hotel Collection Robust Growth Focuses On Major Markets The Union Hotel 
ROCKVILLE, Md. – The Ascend Hotel Collection , by Choice Hotels International, Inc. (NYSE: CHH), one of the world's largest hotel companies, continues to rapidly expand with a specific focus on top markets. The world's first and largest soft brand is coming off one of its most successful years in 2017 by opening 56 hotels globally, and there are now more than 250 properties open or in the pipeline. Ascend has strengthened its presence in high barrier-to-entry and popular markets with the recent additions of best-in-class, independent upscale properties in San Francisco, Hawaii and Miami. The brand will also be adding several properties in Brooklyn to its portfolio. 
"The Ascend brand is reinforcing its position of leadership in the soft brand segment as we welcome many more exciting properties in great destinations around the country," said Mark Shalala, vice president, development, upscale brands, Choice Hotels. "Hoteliers continue to seek us out because of the high quality of our portfolio and the abundant resources that we provide. We look forward to even greater growth in top markets, as well as exceptional and sought-after leisure destinations." 
"The success of the Ascend Hotel Collection brand is its win-win value proposition for hoteliers and guests," said Janis Cannon, senior vice president of upscale brands for Choice Hotels. "The Ascend platform offers hotels a powerful global presence online and on mobile, as well as the benefits of Choice Privileges, an award-winning loyalty program. This proven model has enabled the Ascend Hotel Collection brand to attract top properties in both popular and off the beaten path destinations for experience-hungry travelers seeking unique upscale accommodations, and a sense of community and culture." 
This is especially true in fashionable Brooklyn where the Ascend Hotel Collection footprint is thriving. Open and soon-to-be-opened Brooklyn Ascend Hotel Collection properties are located in different neighborhoods of the borough, each reflective of the area's rich culture and history: Gowanus Inn & Yard - Located near Prospect Park, the Gowanus Inn & Yard hotel offers an industrial-chic stay with curated art. The LOOK Red Hook - The LOOK Red Hook hotel features design inspiration from the maritime industry with local photography and mermaid print wall vinyl. Union Hote l - Situated in a 19th century brick and mortar building near the Brooklyn Bridge and Barclays Center, the property pays tribute to the factories and warehouses that built New York City. Insignia Hotel - The Insignia Hotel is a newly built boutique property located in the heart of Chinatown and features statement colors that bring to life the culture of its neighborhood. Baltic Huis - Located in a revived industrial building in the Boerum Hill district, the Baltic Huis hotel is a blend of the area's rich Dutch heritage and includes hidden spaces like an underground coffee shop. Another property in Brooklyn will open soon on Flatbush Avenue, and will feature modern amenities within its original structure playing a part in the revitalization of its thriving neighborhood. 
For more information on Ascend Hotels development opportunities, please visit https://choicehotelsdevelopment.com/ascendcollection . About Choice Hotels 
Choice Hotels International, Inc. (NYSE: CHH ) is one of the world's largest hotel companies. With over 6,500 hotels franchised in more than 40 countries and territories, Choice Hotels International represents more than 500,000 rooms around the globe. As of September 30, 2017, over 800 hotels were in our development pipeline. Our company's Ascend Hotel Collection®, Cambria® Hotels, Comfort Inn®, Comfort Suites®, Sleep Inn®, Quality®, Clarion®, MainStay Suites®, WoodSpring Suites®, Suburban Extended Stay Hotel®, Econo Lodge®, Rodeway Inn®, and Vacation Rentals by Choice Hotels® brands provide a spectrum of lodging choices to meet guests' needs. With more than 35 million members, our Choice Privileges® rewards program enhances every trip a guest takes, with benefits ranging from instant, every day rewards to exceptional experiences, starting right when they join. All hotels and vacation rentals are independently owned and operated. Visit us at www.choicehotels.com for more information.