13 things you didn’t know about Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg March 26, 2018 4:46 pm Facebook co-founder Mark Zuckerberg 
We know that recently Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg apologized on CNN saying “ I’m really sorry that this happened” in reference to Cambridge Analytica, a data firm with ties to President Donald Trump’s 2016 campaign, accessing information from 50 million Facebook users without their knowledge. 
According to CNN, Zuckerberg wrote on Facebook that the company made “mistakes” and outlined how it has changed its policies to make sure that user data is protected. 
But here are 11 things you probably don’t know about Zuckerberg, whose Facebook receives over a billion users monthly: 
Read: Facebook under fire, but it’s your fault! Yes you! 
(Points 1-6 are sourced from Entrepreneur) 
1- Microsoft and AOL almost hired him. When Mark was a senior in high school he co-created Synapse Media Player, an MP3 player that tracked users’ favorite songs and made playlists based on their choices, like Spotify or Pandora today. 
Microsoft and AOL wanted to buy it and hire Zuckerberg but Mark got a patent and went to college instead. 
2- Mark uses Morgan Freeman artificially 
Zuckerberg got actor Morgan Freeman to be the voice of his artificial intelligence assistance Jarvis, named after Tony Stark’s Jarvis AI from the Iron Man movies 
3-Declined offers to sell Facebook. NewsCorp, MySpace, Viacom, Yahoo, NBC, Microsoft (again) and Google all put offers to buy Facebook, which Mark launched on Feb 4, 2004, but Zuckerberg wasn’t interested. 
4- Bathroom wait ended in marriage The New York, May 14, 1984 born Zuckerberg met his future wife Priscilla Chan waiting in line for the bathroom at a Alpha Epsilon Pi fraternity party at Harvard. 
Watch: Apple, Google, Amazon, Microsoft, and Facebook seem unstoppable. Now What? 
5- His dog has massive following 
Beast, Zuckerberg’s Hungarian sheepdog, has his own Facebook fan page that has more than 2 million likes. 
6- Blocking Mark or his wife is impossible 
You can unfollow but not block Mark or Priscilla Chan, and trying to do it will give you an error reading, “this profile can’t be blocked for now.” 
(Points 7-13 are courtesy of Inc.com) 
7- Progamming for dummies 
Zuckerberg’s interest in programming developed when his parents gifted him the book C++ for Dummies 
8- Developed IM before AOL 
Mark built a product called ZuckNet, just for his family, allowing his father to send an instant message to anyone in the house and visa versa which was an early version of AOL’s Instant Messenger. Read: Which rival is Facebook losing its audience to? 
9- Speaks in tongues not in use today 
On his application to Harvard University, he listed French, Hebrew, Latin, and ancient Greek as languages he could read and write. 
10-Created Facemash before Facebook, and had to apologize back then 
While studying at Harvard, Zuckerberg, then a psychology sophomore, developed “Facemash,” a website that asked users to judge students’ attractiveness based on their dorm-directory photos. Within only days of launch, the school shut it down indicating that it was a breach of individual privacy and security. In addition to the cancellation of the site, Zuckerberg had to issue a public apology for the website. Deja vue! 
11-Color blind, but not for blue 
Facebook is blue because Zuckerberg is red-green color blind. “Blue is the richest color for me. I can see all of blue,” he told ABC News. 
12-Eat this! 
According to an employee, when trying to resolve something at work with his team, Mark doesn’t let anyone order food. He would pound the table and just say, ‘No! We’re in lockdown! No one leaves the table until we’re done with this thing.” 
13- Poor wedding 
His wedding was small and intimate with less than 100 guests who snacked on Mexican and Japanese food from the couple’s favourite local restaurants; Palo Alto Sol and Fuki Sushi. The Mexican meals were valued at a modest $7.50 each. Dessert was a selection of mice-shaped chocolate from Burdick Chocolate priced at just over $3 each. It was a sweet the couple had eaten on their first date.