Written by Andrew McDonald 1 hour ago Channel 4 has created a number of new executive roles – including chief operating officer and chief product officer – as part of a shakeup of the broadcaster’s top positions. Alex Mahon The chief product officer will spearhead the UK broadcaster’s push into new digital areas and will also take responsibility for online service All 4. The chief operating officer will lead Channel 4’s finance, workspace, operations and information systems teams. Keith Underwood, who was previously director of strategy and technology, will take on the COO role while a full recruitment process takes place. This follows the departure of group finance director, Glyn Isherwood, who joined the BBC earlier this month. Channel 4 has also appointed former Shine, News International and talkbackThames human resources executive, Caroline Ross, to the new role of chief human resources officer. Channel 4’s current head of HR, Stephanie Cox, is stepping down to spend more time with her family and is due to leave Channel 4 on May 2. At the same time, Channel 4’s director of consumer insight, Sarah Rose, has been appointed chief consumer and strategy officer – a new role that brings together Channel 4’s strategy, audience and commercial research teams, as well as data science. Channel 4 sales director, Jonathan Allan, has been made chief commercial officer with additional responsibilities for leading Channel 4’s 4 All the UK Nations and Regions strategy. Meanwhile, head of planning, Lynette Huntley, has been appointed to the new role of chief of staff, working with CEO Alex Mahon on “priority projects”. The other members of the executive team remain: director commercial affairs, Martin Baker; director of Film4, Daniel Battsek; chief marketing and communications officer, Dan Brooke; and director of programmes, Ian Katz. All continue to report directly to Mahon. The changes to the Channel 4 executive team were announced by Mahon, who joined the broadcaster from visual effects business Foundry last summer. “Our leadership team comprises some of the industry’s leading commercial and creative innovators and these new roles will strengthen our strategic capabilities, especially as we develop further in digital,” said Mahon