42 AMD and Intel CPUs review: Which processor is best? Which processor to buy? Friday 23 March 2018 11:20 Introduction 
In 2017, AMD and Intel once again competed with each other, in a way we hadn't seen in years. Both brands came up with tons of new Core and Ryzen processors. Time to take stock: Which processor should you buy for which purpose? After reading this article you know which CPU is best for you! Miracle year 2017 
2017 can rightly be called a wonderful year, at least in the area of new processors. The year started with the introduction of Intel's 7th generation 'Kaby Lake' processors in the mainstream line, cpu's with up to four computer cores. It was an almost dutiful obligatory routine, in which we saw a marginal speed increase compared to the previous generation. Therefore, the reception was not incredible. 
In 2018 you can buy a much faster CPU than at the beginning of last year! Ryzen fireworks 
In March, however, the fireworks started: AMD, whose Bulldozer CPUs had been unable to keep up with Intel's Core force at least since 2011 after a disastrous gamble on the development of the processor market, introduced its new Zen architecture. 
Starting with 8-core Ryzen 7 chips, AMD not only delivered the promised IPC and therefore improved performance compared to the older chips, but even surpassed promises. Ryzen can even compete with Broadwell-E, Intel's high-end desktop processors, in some tests. 
Moreover, AMD didn't quit after a few processors, they soon followed up with a trimmed-down Ryzen 5 and a little later in the year the Ryzen 3 series came out, bringing quad-core processors to an unprecedentedly low price point. This was made possible by the clever design of Ryzen based on so-called CPU Complexes (CCX), which AMD weaved together using an even more sophisticated technology called Infinity Fabric. This granted the company a technique that can be produced on a single production line in many different versions, but also can be used to put a product on the market at numerous price points. Given the company's limited R&D budget, this ingenious concept is desperately needed: it cannot currently finance individual designs for different markets.