Press Release 23 March 2018 JW Marriott Nashville Rounds Out Executive Team With Seven Director Appointments 
NASHVILLE, TN/UNITED STATES – JW Marriott Nashville is pleased to announce the appointments of seven key leadership positions to the Turnberry Associates owned hotel slated to open this summer. The team expands with Silvia San Martin as Director of Sales & Marketing, Michael Klein as Director of Food & Beverage, Susie McDaniel as Director of People + Culture, Lindsay Staniszewski as Director of Marketing, Ross Bruce as Director of Revenue Management, Michael Edwards as Director of Finance and Steve Vaughn as Director of Engineering. Bringing a combined 115 years of extensive hospitality experience to JW Marriott Nashville, the newest executive members will ensure the success of the highly anticipated property. 
"We've established a seasoned team of professionals, each bringing his / her diverse background and experience to create a refreshing perspective on hospitality," said Lukus Kindlesparker, General Manager of the JW Marriott Nashville. "Having strong, well-rounded executives is critical to a successful and impactful opening. We are confident that under this leadership, the JW Marriott Nashville is perfectly positioned to be a leader is the luxury hospitality space in Nashville and beyond." Silvia San Martin, Director of Sales and Marketing 
Overseeing all planning and implementation of sales strategies, San Martin works with her team of sales managers to maximize hotel revenue in all market segments. Fostering and forging key business and client relationships, San Martin works to optimize the reach of the $250 million hotel regionally, nationally and internationally. She also oversees the recruitment, training and operations of the business travel sales and catering sales teams. Prior to joining the JW Marriott Nashville project, San Martin spent nearly 20 years working for Omni Hotels & Resorts. Most recently, San Martin served for four years as the Director of Sales at the 800-room Omni Nashville Hotel, where she spearheaded the sales efforts both pre- and post-opening. San Martin is a graduate of University of Houston's Conrad N. Hilton & Restaurant Management. Michael Klein, Director of Food & Beverage 
Klein oversees the property's three food and beverage outlets, all banquet and catering services, as well as in-room dining. He works to maintain high standards of quality, service and merchandise to maximize hotel profitability. Prior to his time with Turnberry Associates, Klein served as the Director of Hotel Operations for the Renaissance Austin Hotel. With nearly 15 years of experience in the hospitality industry, Klein has worked for a number of high-grossing properties, including the JW Marriott San Antonio Hill Country Resort & Spa as Director of Restaurants and Gaylord Opryland Resort & Convention Center as General Manager of Fine Dining Restaurants. Klein has worked as General Manager for both Garden Conservatory Restaurants and Delta Island Restaurants, both organizations which owned and managed restaurants within Gaylord Opryland. Michael graduated from American University in Washington, D.C., with his Bachelor of Arts from the School of Public Affairs. He then went on to obtain his Master of Management in Hospitality from Cornell University in New York. Susie McDaniel, Director of People + Culture 
In her role, McDaniel oversees all talent acquisition and retention efforts, training and development, total rewards, hotel policy development and management, employee relations activities and overall hotel workforce strategy. Prior to joining the JW Marriott Nashville team, McDaniel served as the Market Director of Human Resources in Los Angeles, California, overseeing The Ritz-Carlton, The Ritz-Carlton Residences L.A. LIVE, JW Marriott Los Angeles L.A. LIVE and Courtyard & Residence Inn Los Angeles L.A. LIVE. Before her time in Los Angeles, McDaniel served as Vice President of Human Resources for The Light Group / Hakkasan Group in Las Vegas. McDaniel has also worked as Vice President of Human Resources for the Hard Rock Hotel & Casino and MGM Resorts International Properties, including the Mirage Hotel & Casino, in Las Vegas, Nevada. With over 20 years of experience in the hospitality industry, McDaniel has pioneered human resource initiatives to enhance and support overall revenue growth, while also developing cultures of learning and associate engagement. Lindsay Staniszewski, Director of Marketing 
As a strategic leader for the property, Staniszewski oversees all marketing, public relations, advertising, digital media and brand creative. Working closely with the sales and revenue management leaders, Staniszewski is responsible for ensuring all external marketing efforts align with the property's overarching financial goals, directly impacting the overall revenue. Prior to joining the JW Marriott Nashville project, Staniszewski oversaw marketing for the Omni Nashville Hotel, where she helped to garner numerous accolades for the hotel and for the hotel's outlets. Before stepping into the world of hospitality, Staniszewski worked for notable brands, including Under Armour, Sony Corporation of America and Pandora Jewelry, serving as a key communications leader, both internally and externally. Staniszewski graduated from the University of Maryland College Park, earning her Bachelor of Arts in Communications. Ross Bruce, Director of Revenue Management 
As an instrumental leader of JW Marriott Nashville, Bruce is responsible for driving top-line revenue and market share through implementation of strategic pricing and inventory controls. Understanding the trends in the local market, Bruce ensures that all business decisions are made with the financial goals of the property at the forefront. He also oversees the reservations team and works closely with the sales and marketing leaders to manage e-commerce business. Prior to JW Marriott Nashville, Bruce served as the Director of Revenue Management at The Westin Charlotte, a 700-room property in the heart of the city. He has over 10 years of experience working in the hospitality industry in both operations and revenue management. After spending time at the W Atlanta - Buckhead, Bruce was promoted to lead the revenue support team for eight Starwood Hotels & Resorts properties, which included Westin, Sheraton, W and St. Regis brands. A graduate of Georgia State University, Ross Bruce earned his Bachelor of Business Administration in Hospitality Administration. Michael Edwards, Director of Finance 
In his role, Edwards provides financial expertise across all hotel disciplines to maximize the return on investment and ensure successful implementation of the Turnberry Hospitality service strategies. Edwards is responsible for the creation and execution of JW Marriott Nashville's business plan and ensures that all business operations are aligned with the company's financial goals.Prior to joining the JW Marriott Nashville, Edwards served as Director of Finance & Accounting at Gaylord Opryland. Edwards has worked in the hospitality industry for nearly 20 years, with experience in both operations and financial management. This is his second JW Marriott property, as he spent nearly five years working for the JW Marriott San Antonio Hill Country Resort and Spa. Edwards has worked at the San Diego Marriott Del Mar, the Seattle Marriott Waterfront and at multiple high-grossing waterparks across the country.Michael Edwards is a graduate of Texas A&M University in College Station, Texas, where he earned his Bachelor of Science in Psychology. He then went on to graduate from Texas State University with his Master of Business Administration. Steve Vaughn, Director of Engineering 
In his position, Vaughn leads, manages and directs daily operations and maintenance of all hotel properties, infrastructure and facilities. As the lead engineer on site, he manages, directs and coordinates CAPEX planning and projects and development of the brand-new property.Prior to joining the JW Marriott Nashville, Vaughn spent time working for the Loews brand, at the Loews New Orleans Hotel in Louisiana, the Loews Vanderbilt Hotel in Tennessee and the Loews Portofino Bay in Florida. With over 20 years of experience working in the hospitality industry, Vaughn prides himself on understanding the "ins" and "outs" of all hotel operations, ensuring seamless execution across all departments - and therefore a seamless experience for the guest. 
The 533-key JW Marriott Nashville is slated to open in Summer 2018 and will feature a trio of award-winning restaurants, including Michael Mina's Bourbon Steak, a full-service Spa by JW, a heated rooftop pool and a state-of-the-art fitness center. The hotel's distinctive elliptical shape, conceptualized by esteemed architecture firm Arquitectonica, and its stunning and sleek interior, created by design firm Stonehill & Taylor, embodies the creative spirit of Nashville while exuding the approachable luxury of the renowned JW Marriott brand. Located within a two-mile radius of Nashville's most treasured landmarks and offering 50,000 square feet of flexible event space equipped with state-of-the-art audio visual and wireless technology, the property will become a must-visit destination in Music City. Turnberry Associates 
Turnberry Associates is one of America's premier real estate development and property management companies. Founded more than 50 years ago, the company's diverse projects have revolutionized the living, working, leisure and shopping habits of millions of people across the country. Turnberry Associates has to its credit the development of more than $110 billion in commercial and residential property including approximately 20 million square feet of retail space, more than 7,000 apartments and condominium units, 1.5 million square feet of class "AA" office space and over 3,000 hotel and resort rooms. The company's diverse residential, hospitality, retail and commercial projects have received accolades for revolutionizing the living, working, leisure and shopping habits of millions of people across the country. From Turnberry Ocean Colony, Porto Vita, Aventura Mall, Turnberry Ocean Club, Fontainebleau Hotel in Miami Beach and Turnberry Isle Resort in Aventura to signature properties in Las Vegas, Washington D.C. and the Bahamas, Turnberry Associates is known for superb quality and impeccable service. 
Marriott International, Inc. (NASDAQ: MAR ) is based in Bethesda, Maryland, USA, and encompasses a portfolio of more than 6,100 properties in 30 leading hotel brands spanning 124 countries and territories. Marriott operates and franchises hotels and licenses vacation ownership resorts. The company also operates award-winning loyalty programs: Marriott Rewards®, which includes The Ritz-Carlton Rewards®, and Starwood Preferred Guest®. For more information, please visit our website at www.marriott.com , and for the latest company news, visit www.marriottnewscenter.com . Connect with us on Facebook and @MarriottIntl on Twitter and Instagram .