Industry Update Press Release 23 March 2018 Hospitality Innovator David Bowd Of Salt Hotels And Istar Launch Third Installment Of Salt School, A Free Hospitality Training Program For Locals Asbury Lanes, the legendary bowling alley-turned music venue to open this Memorial Day, inspires the largest Salt School to-date now with added community job fair post-graduation 
Who: David Bowd of Salt Hotels iStar, Master Developer of the Asbury Park waterfront What: 
In preparation for the summer reopening of Asbury Lanes, iconic 1960s bowling alley-turned music venue, Salt School will be re-introduced to the local Asbury Park community for its third year. The vigorous hospitality training program created by David Bowd of Salt Hotels in partnership with Master Developer, iStar was conceived with the goal of giving anyone in the community - of any background, experience-level, age, race, and orientation, the opportunity to receive training by the best in the business, for free. Salt School speaks to iStar's investment in the community and its residents which has gone far beyond its robust pipeline of developments with initiatives including the Summer Experience Crew, a summer program training City ambassadors. By simply answering "why do you want to attend hospitality school?" via an online form, locals are given the chance to learn from renowned hotel innovator, David Bowd of Salt Hotels, who has three decades of experience, having worked with names like Ian Schrager and Andre Balazs. 
Motivated by his own humble beginnings in the industry—having no formal education and getting his start as a bellman at age 15, Bowd describes Salt School as "a movement so genuine it changed our culture." In Salt School's first year, 110 diplomas were given out and 65 graduates were hired for The Asbury Hotel, Asbury Park's first hotel in 50 years. Many graduates from the inaugural year are still part of The Asbury family today and will be moving on to supervising and management positions at Asbury Lanes this season. As a result of its success, Salt School will be carried out at all Salt properties moving forward, which include Salt House Inn, Eben House and The Chequit. 
Bowd, who also serves as a Principal of west elm Hotels, is bringing the Salt School concept to the new brand with the launch of west elm Hotels Academy. The training program will be executed during hotel launches slated for 2019 in more than 10 cities including Detroit, Minneapolis and Oakland. 
This year, Salt School is looking to accept two hundred Asbury Park applicants, expanding on past years, and will employee a quarter of graduates at Asbury Lanes. School will culminate with a formal graduation and job fair which was added this year due to demand from local businesses and will allow remaining graduates the opportunity for hire and equipt local businesses with trained staff. 
Industry leaders will teach students all aspects of hospitality with an added focus on food & beverage leading into the opening of Asbury Lanes this summer which will offer a 24/7, full-service diner. Founder and Chef of the internationally recognized Meatball Shop restaurants, Daniel Holzman will be one of the special guest speakers. 
Curriculum focuses will include: guest service, food and beverage management, accounting, culinary and bar trends, event planning, talent and human resources management, marketing and social media. When: Application process is open from March 20-31, 2018; Salt School officially begins on April 14, 2018 and will take place every Saturday for three weeks. Graduation will take place on Sunday, April 29, in time for the Asbury Lanes reopening over Memorial Day weekend. In addition, a job fair will be held at The Asbury Hotel on May 6 th where local hospitality businesses will have the opportunity to interview Salt School graduates 
Where: The Boys and Girls Club of Monmouth County, 1201 Monroe Ave, Asbury Park, NJ 
Applications: To apply, visit www.salthotels.com/salt-school ABOUT SALT HOTELS 
Salt Hotels is a burgeoning collection of boutique properties that redefine the concept of a classic bed and breakfast with a fresh, contemporary "no rules" approach. Beginning with the award-winning Salt House Inn in Provincetown, MA in 2013, now the flagship for Salt Hotels, the brand operates three properties in the U.S.: Eben House (Provincetown, MA) and The Chequit (Shelter Island, NY) both opened in 2015. The Asbury Hotel in Asbury, New Jersey, is a collaborative redevelopment project that will be managed by the company and bring an exciting and unique hotel product to the Jersey Shore. There is also a healthy pipeline of development in Upstate New York, Pal Springs, Topeka, Kansas, the Caribbean and London. As a full service hospitality company, Salt Hotels provides comprehensive services in hotel management, design and development, creative services, sales and marketing, revenue management, food and beverage development and management and human resources; www.salthotels.com .