Share on Twitter + 
Check out the fun and quirky poster of Mr. Umesh Shukla’s ageless comedy 102 Not Out! 
102 Not Out brings legends Mr. Amitabh Bachchan and Mr.Rishi Kapoor, as father and son for the very first time, 27 years after their last film together. 
Billed as the most unusual father and son love story, 102 Not Out is based on playwright Saumya Joshi’s well known Gujarati play by the same name and has been adapted into a feature by him. 
Talking about the film, Mr. Amitabh Bachchan, who plays the role of 102 year old man living life to the fullest, said, “Teaming up with Chintu ji after so many years .. after so many successful historic films, has been the greatest joy during ‘102 Not Out’ .. a novel story, competent direction and a most qualified crew, has made the experience even greater .. I know the country loves the younger, fresh and vibrant new generation – as must it should deservedly , but who ever said the ‘oldies’ are not capable to do similar .. we know you may not love us, but given a chance we shall not disappoint you either .. and that is as immodest as I can get .. BADUMB !!!” 
Mr. Rishi Kapoor, who plays 75-year-old son of Mr. Bachchan in the film, added, “Being in 102 Not Out brought back a lot of fond memories and fun I have shared with Amitji during my younger days. I am glad to reunite with him on such a special and unusual film. It will definitely delight our fans!” 
Filmmaker Mr.Umesh Shukla added, “102 Not Out is a highly entertaining and extremely successful Gujarati play that has won over the youth and family audiences across the board. The idea of adapting it into a Hindi feature came from the fact that the relationship between a parent and a child is universal and the one where love supersedes everything else, including age! Amitabh Sir and Rishi Sir together are a dream cast for anyone and I sensed a deep responsibility in bringing them together.” 
Baap COOL beta OLD SCHOOL! Coming to you 4th May! 
A Sony Pictures Releasing International Production and worldwide distribution- 102 Not Out is Produced by SPE Films India, Treetop Entertainment and Umesh Shukla’s Benchmark Pictures. The film releases worldwide on 4th May 2018 Share this: