by Road Watch EU · 23/03/2018 
Welcome to the 160th Bad Driving UK Compilation! 
Road rage, blind maneuvering, near misses, funny reactions, dangerous driving, confusion and stupidity you didn’t think existed! 
Should go without saying really but don’t send clips in if you’ve filmed them on your phone whilst driving, I won’t be accepting any clips recorded this way in the future. Received some worrying clips lately and I don’t want to encourage it further. 
Cast your vote for twat of the week by clicking the ‘i’ icon in the top right hand corner of this video. 
At the end of the year, the twats of the week will be compiled into their own compilation, a poll for the twat of the year will be added to that video and the person who sent the clip who features the twat of the year, will be sent a nice dash-cam. 
Special thanks to everyone who sent in clips, I know a lot of clips aren’t included, they will be included at some point in upcoming compilations. If it’s been over 2 months since you sent a clip, email me and let me know! 
If you would like to send in a clip, I accept clips worldwide for Bonus, Bad and Nice Driving Compilations. Email me, Welshdrive@outlook.com. Please note that if files are over 25mb, then they can’t be attached directly to my email, in this case please upload it somewhere and send a link to my email. Thanks! 
If you are struggling with anxiety, depression or any other mental illness consider online counseling with a licensed professional at BetterHelp. It’s far cheaper and more convenient than in-person counseling. 
http://tryonlinetherapy.com/welshdrive 
Music sourced from Epidemic sound. License paid for by MCN/UnionForGamers. 
Intro Track | Drunken Sailer – Irish Rovers 
Outro Track | Imprint– Jack Elphick 
Follow me on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/welshdrive/ 
Please note that if you take anything from this video and use it in your own without permission I will contact YouTube, including the thumbnails! I’ve seen several YouTube channels lately re-using my thumbnail/videos and I’ve taken action, respect the contributors and creators. Thanks. Incidentally if you spot a video that has my content in it you can take action on my behalf! 
Thanks to everyone who sent in clips! 
Contributors: (Being added soon)