News 
Antec Inc., a leading provider of high-performance computer components and accessories for the gaming, PC upgrade and Do-It-Yourself market, presents the latest mid tower of their award-winning Antec Performance Series: the Antec P6. The case is now commercially available from 59€ (suggested retail price including VAT). 
Light It Up The latest addition to Antec’s renowned Performance Series offers a smooth and streamlined appearance – ideal for a versatile micro-ATX build that fits every environment. The compact powerhouse measures 470mm x 200mm x 405mm (DxWxH) and is compatible with micro-ATX and ITX motherboards. The P6 supports VGA cards with a length of up to 390 mm and features a built-in LED logo projector to highlight the desktop set-up. The 4 mm tempered glass side panel makes it easy to show off the build. 
Direct airflow cooling system To keep its cool, the P6 offers space for two 120 mm or two 140 mm case fans in the front, three 120 mm or two 140 mm fans at the top as well as one 120mm fan in the rear of the case. Furthermore, the front panel is designed with airflow vents that enable optimal airflow paths to keep the components running cool. The thought-out case already comes with one pre-installed 120 mm white LED fan at the rear of the case. For extra water-cooling, the P6 allows to install a 240 mm radiator in the front and a 120 mm radiator in the rear. 
Space Efficient Interior The flexible hard drive mounting system boasts two convertible and relocatable tool-less 2.5″ / 3.5″ HDD drive cages, four 2.5″ SSD drive cages as well as four expansion slots and four PCIe slots. The front bezel features access to two USB 3.0 ports, POWER and reset button as well as MIC/HD AUDIO jacks. The separate power supply chamber allows heat to be managed efficiently. Additional features include magnetic dust filters on the top and front, a pull-out air filter at the bottom and rugged case feet. 
The P6 embodies the essence of the Performance Series, available now in a compact form that fits in any environment. Characterized by the clean silhouette, tempered glass side window, and the elegant finish, the P6 is appointed with the features that ensure an efficient build with no wasted space. Share On