Home » News » Thermaltake Launches Pacific CL Series Copper Radiators Thermaltake Launches Pacific CL Series Copper Radiators News 
Thermaltake, a leading brand in PC cooling solutions, today released the latest copper radiator lineup – Pacific CL360, Pacific CL420 and Pacific CL480. Available in 360mm, 420mm and 480mm, the Pacific CL Series utilizes an extremely thick radiator with a high-density copper fin design and brass tank to assure the best cooling capacity. The radiators are lighter and more durable than most copper radiators on the market thanks to the stainless steel made side panels that guarantee durability as well as reduce the weight. The integrated G1/4″ threads are optimized for easy installation while rigid connections ensure leak-resistant measures are in place. With an ideal mounting, fitting and flow set-up, the radiators meet your cooling needs in every way! 
Exclusively “Tt LCS Certified” Tt LCS Certified is a Thermaltake exclusive certification applied to products that pass the rigorous hardcore enthusiast standards that only the world’s best LCS chassis are held to. The Tt LCS certification was created so that we at Thermaltake can clearly convey to power users and enthusiasts which chassis are built and tested to be best compatible under extreme liquid cooling configurations. This ensures you get the best performance, compatibility and features. 
Features of the Thermaltake Pacific CL Series Copper Radiators: 
Optimized Heat Dispatching The radiators are optimized for efficiently pulling heat away from the power-dissipating components thus achieving maximum heat dissipation at both low and high airflow operation. After soldering, the fin and tube connect to form a joint, thereby creating uniform heat transfer. 
Triple-Row Copper Tubes with Brass Tank To assure the best thermal capacity and increase heat transfer, the Pacific CL Series is engineered with an extremely thick 64mm radiator along with a triple-row flat tube design and brass tank. This technique allows that water flows down on the one side, and then passes across the bottom chamber before circulating back to the other side of the radiator. 
High-Density Copper Fin Design Fin density is optimally designed to accommodate high air volume (FPI: 14). The performance improves significantly with increased fan speed, offering superior cooling efficiency during operation. 
Stainless Steel Side Panels Unlike most of copper radiators on the market, the Pacific CL Series utilizes stainless steel made side panels that increase the durability and strength of the radiator while reducing the weight. 
High-Quality Manufacturing Process: Reflow Soldering An exceptional manufacturing process using high temperature soldering at 482℉/250℃ sets the radiator in a class of its own. This technique allows for impurities to be kept out of the soldering process, ensuring that full strength on all the connected areas is achieved. The radiator is baked through a controlled atmosphere soldering line. The materials melt into each other to accomplish optimal thermal transfer from the tubes to the actual fins in order to attain better heat evacuation. 
Remarkable Expansion Designed for 120mm and 140mm high-static pressure fans, the Pacific CL Series allow users to build up aesthetically-superior watercooled PCs as well as incorporate externally-modular upgrades for the systems, delivering the ultimate in custom configurations. 
Thermaltake Pacific CL Series Copper Radiators are now available on TT Premium online shops. The product availability and price vary by country and region. 
For more details on the Thermaltake Pacific CL Series Copper Radiators, please visit: Pacific CL480 / Pacific CL420 / Pacific CL360 . Share On