‘Concentrated robotics power’ at Hannover Messe 2018 March 18, 2018 by Sam Francis 
Organisers of the Hannover Messe say there will be “concentrated robotics power” at this year’s industrial technology show. 
ABB, Epson, Kawasaki, Kuka, Mitsubishi, Schunk, Stäubli, Universal Robots, Franka Emika and Yaskawa – the exhibitor list for Hannover Messe 2018 reads like a Who’s Who of the robotics industry. 
These robotics companies, systems integrators and providers of gripper systems and more will be showcasing their Smart Factory solutions under the banner of the show’s lead theme of “Integrated Industry – Connect & Collaborate”. 
Their presence reflects the integral role of robots and automated guided vehicles in today’s modern manufacturing landscape. It is a landscape in which robotics and automation are constantly breaking new ground in human/machine collaboration. 
What’s more, as these technologies mature and grow in diversity, they are becoming increasingly affordable for small and mid-size manufacturers. 
“The range of Industry 4.0 solutions coming out of the robotics industry at the moment is truly vast,” says Arno Reich, global director automation for Hannover Messe. 
“That is why the robotics and automation showcase is a major attraction for all visitors at Hannover Messe. 
“All areas of the manufacturing industry are improving their production processes and outputs by integrating industrial robots, mobile robots, automated guided vehicle systems and industrial image processing solutions. 
“The applications of these technologies are growing all the time, thanks to innovations like touch-sensitive robotic technologies, pack-and-place solutions and barrier-free, collaborative robots.” 
In 2018, robot manufacturers, image processing specialists and systems integrators will again be showcasing the latest innovations and highlights at the Robotics, Automation & Vision Application Park in Hall 17. 
Among the Hall 17 exhibitors will be Asentics, MVTech and Hannover Messe first-timer Q.Vitec. 
With its live presentations of mobile robotics solutions and automated systems, the Robotics, Automation & Vision Application Park pavilion is a perennial visitor magnet at the show. 
Robotics, automation and industrial image processing will also feature strongly at the Automation Forum in Hall 14. 
The forum lectures will have a dual focus on R&D and in-factory applications, so there will be plenty of interest for visitors from all backgrounds. 
Robotics Awards 2018 
In 2018, the organizers of Hannover Messe will again be offering the Robotics Award for applied robotics solutions. 
It will be the eighth time that the show has sponsored the award. 
Submissions for the Robotics Award are open to commercial enterprises and institutions in Germany and other countries whose products, projects or technologies have made an innovative contribution to robot-aided solutions in industrial automation, mobile robotics or autonomous systems. 
The competition is also open to companies not registered as Hannover Messe exhibitors. 
The Award – which has the support of the Ministry for Economic Affairs, Employment and Transport of the German state of Lower Saxony – carries €10,000 of prize money. 
The Robotics Award 2018 will be presented at a special press conference to be held at Hannover Messe on Tuesday, 24 April, at 3:30 pm. Share this: