Home / Science and technology / Scientists have decoded the DNA of the “humanoid” from the Atacama Scientists have decoded the DNA of the “humanoid” from the Atacama 7 hours ago Science and technology 3 Views 
The tiny mummy, dubbed the “Atacama humanoid” was not a stranger, and a man of very rare mutations. Research work on this was published in the journal Genome Research, briefly about the study reports the website of Stanford University. 
Photo: Dr. Emery Smith 
In 2003 in the abandoned village of La Noria of the Atacama desert in Chile found a packet of small humanoid mummy. Its length was about 15 cm — as the bills. 
Mummy looked very unusual: her skull was greatly lengthened because of what she looked like aliens from a science fiction movie. Besides, it was hard teeth and 9 pairs of ribs instead of the usual for a person 12. The mummy attracted the attention of ufologists, it was called ATA. See also: The Chinese have released ultra smartphone 
Now a group of scientists under the direction of Professor of biology Garry Nolan has conducted a DNA analysis of tissue taken from the bone marrow of the ribs ATA. “The findings are swept aside any remaining doubts about the home planet of the specimen. This is, without doubt, man,” the scientists write. 
Photo: Dr. Emery Smith 
Photo: Dr. Emery Smith 
The analysis showed that ATA was a girl, probably born prematurely or born dead as a result of miscarriage. Her mother was originally from the West coast of South America, most likely Chilean. See also: Iris Samsung Galaxy Tab tablet with a scanner iris 
At Aty was a set of bones, like 6-year-old child. The researchers found mutations of seven genes which are responsible for the development of bones, deformation of the face and dwarfism. Some of these mutations have not been described. 
The age of the skeleton is around 40 years. According to the analysis, 8% of the DNA did not match with the human. The researchers explained that the destruction of the sample, and not extraterrestrial in origin. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share