Press Release 19 March 2018 Tina Yu of KSL Capital Partners honored with ISHC Young Leader Award at IHIF From L to R: John Fareed, ISHC Chairman; Tina Yu, Senior Vice President, KSL Capital Partners; Alexi Khajavi, Executive Vice President, Questex Hospitality Group 
Tina Yu, Senior Vice President of KSL Capital Partners was awarded the prestigious ISHC Young Leader Award at the International Hotel Investment Forum (IHIF) with an audience of over 2000 senior leaders from 80 countries worldwide. The International Society of Hospitality Consultants (ISHC) presented Yu the award in partnership with Questex Hospitality Group, the organizers of the IHIF conference. 
Andrea Belfanti, ISHC Executive Director commented, "It is quite impressive the career Tina Yu has had under the age of 30. She is respected and well known in the industry. We are thankful for Questex Hospitality Group and our successful partnership that has allowed us to recognise 10 young professionals for their leadership and advancement of our industry with the Young Leader Award." 
Yu works in the European office for KSL Capital Partners, a leading private equity firm. She began working for KSL in 2011 and has a background in investment banking. 
Tess Pearson, Event Director for IHIF said on behalf of Questex, "Recognising talented young individuals from within the hospitality industry is always a highlight of the event but that this year's conference took place in the same week as we celebrated International Women's Day, gave particular merit to the extraordinary achievements of this young woman in her career so far. Congratulations Tina and we wish you all the best for continued success." 
The Young Leader Award was established by ISHC and IHIF in 2009 to recognise and celebrate the excellence of young emerging leaders in the hospitality industry. Nominees for the award must be 35 years of age or younger whose contributions are already making an impact on the hospitality industry. About Questex Hospitality Group 
Questex Hospitality Group serves the worldwide hospitality, travel and related industries that together contribute over $6 trillion to global GDP. Through our innovative platform of targeted solutions, the group serves the sector's entire ecosystem from tourism and hotel development and investment to hotel design, purchasing, management and operations. The Questex Hospitality+Travel Group serves every B2B segment of the industry via our proven demand generation, learning, loyalty and rewards solutions as well as our network of live events. For more information visit https://www.questex.com/markets/hospitality . 
Contact Senior Manager of Marketing & Membership ServicesPhone: 678-735-9453 About ISHC 
The International Society of Hospitality Consultants is truly The Leading Source for Global Hospitality Expertise , represented by over two hundred of the industry"s most respected professionals from across six continents. Collectively, ISHC members provide expert services in over fifty functional areas and have specialized skills in virtually every segment of the hospitality industry. ISHC is dedicated to promoting the highest quality of professional consulting standards and practices for the hospitality industry. Candidates undergo a rigorous screening process, ensuring that all ISHC members have a reputation of integrity and are qualified by their experience, training and knowledge to develop and express sound judgment on industry issues. Additional information about the organization, along with a directory of ISHC members, is available on the ISHC website at ishc.com.