Spoedcursus klimaat Onder de titel, ‘Spoedcursus klimaat ter inleiding van rechtszaak tegen olieindustrie’ schreef ik eerder: Onlangs zijn de Amerikaanse steden San Francisco en Oakland een rechtszaak begonnen tegen de olieindustrie, waaronder Exxon, BP en Chevron. Zij werden ervan beschuldigd hun rol in de opwarming van de aarde bewust te hebben willen verbergen. Onder de titel, ‘Federal court will hold first-ever hearing on climate change science’, schreef Stuart Leavenworth onlangs voor ‘McClatchy’: A federal judge in San Francisco has ordered parties in a landmark global warming lawsuit to hold what could be the first-ever U.S. court hearing on the science of climate change. The proceeding, scheduled for March 21 by U.S. District Court Judge William Alsup, will feature lawyers for Exxon, BP, Chevron and other oil companies pitted against those for San Francisco and Oakland — California cities that have accused fossil fuel interests of covering up their role in contributing to global warming. “This will be the closest that we have seen to a trial on climate science in the United States, to date,” said Michael Burger, a lawyer who heads the Sabin Center for Climate Change Law at Columbia University. Experts on both sides say Alsup’s call for a climate change “tutorial” is unlike anything they’ve heard of before. Steven Koonin. 
Steven Koonin. “I don’t know of any judge who has asked for a tutorial like this,” said Steven E. Koonin, a physicist and former Energy Department undersecretary known for his contrarian views on global warming research. “I think it is a great idea. Anybody having to make a decision about climate science needs to understand the full spectrum of what we know and what we don’t know.” Zie verder hier. William Happer. Inmiddels hebben drie prominente Amerikaanse wetenschappers, die zich intensief met het klimaatthema hebben bezig gehouden, de bedoelde ‘tutorial’ aan het gerechtshof aangeboden. Het zijn William Happer (em. prof. ‘Princeton University’ en voormalig directeur energieonderzoek onder de regering Bush Jr.), Steven E. Koonin (voormalig ‘Under Secretary for Science’ op het ministerie voor energie onder de regering Obama), en Richard S. Lindzen. (em. prof. verbonden aan de afdeling ‘Earth, Atmospheric, and Planetary Sciences’ aan het ‘Massachusetts Institute of Technology’). 
De studie, die 22 pagina’s omvat is hier te vinden: Tutorial Professor Presentation Richard Lindzen. Aan de samenvatting ontleen ik het volgende: The attached presentation contains three sections: (1) an overview; (2) responses to the Court’s questions; and (3) biographies of the professors. The short overview section makes the following points: the climate is always changing; changes like those of the past half–century are common in the geologic record, driven by powerful natural phenomena; human influences on the climate are a small (1%) perturbation to natural energy flows; it is not possible to tell how much of the modest recent warming can be ascribed to human influences; and there have been no detrimental changes observed in most salient climate variables and projections of future changes are highly uncertain. We write to offer a presentation in response to your request [van het federale hof] for a tutorial on the best science available on global warming and climate change. We appreciate your willingness to dig more deeply into technical issues, since wise societal decisions require an understanding of this complex and nuanced subject. As independent senior scientists and educators long involved in climate matters, we are well-positioned to offer a clear and informed perspective on what is known, and unknown, about the earth’s changing climate. During our individual careers, we have provided scientific advice on diverse complex decisions, always striving to be dispassionate and “call it like we see it.” That ethos not only best informs decisions, which must consider the science in the context of many other factors, but also preserves the integrity of science, preventing its degradation by bias or agenda. Upon hearing of your [het federale hof] request for a tutorial, we three came together spontaneously with the goal of providing such advice. You will find that our presentation, while crafted for this purpose, is consistent with our past publications. None of us has received any compensation for the considerable effort expended in its preparation. … We offer supporting evidence for each of these statements drawn almost exclusively from the Climate Science Special Report (CSSR) issued by the US government in November, 2017 or from the Fifth Assessment Report (AR5) issued in 2013–14 by the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change or from the refereed primary literature. Zie verder hier . Hoe gezaghebbend wil men het hebben? Deze opvattingen staan op gespannen voet met de vermeende klimaatconsensus. Maar Abba Eban zei het al: 
A consensus means that everyone agrees to say collectively what no one believes individually. 
Een eerste zitting, waarin rechter Alsup de klagers op ongerijmdheden in hun betoog wees, heeft inmiddels plaats gevonden en heeft overweldigende media-aandacht getrokken (grapje!). 
Voor een kort verslag zie hier . 
Voor een meer gedetailleerde analyse zie hier .