23 March 2018, 20:03 Georgian Parliament completes constitutional reform 
The reform of the Constitution of Georgia has culminated in the adoption of amendments thereto. They were supported by 115 MPs out of 150, that is, the parliamentary majority. 
The amendments contain the provisions on which the Venice Commission had insisted. 
Georgia has received its "basic law based on the best European traditions of parliamentary democracy," said Irakliy Kobakhidze, the Speaker. 
"By this reform, the authoritarian Constitution was replaced by a democratic one," the press service of the Parliament quotes him as saying. 
According to the Speaker, the new version significantly improves the protection of human rights, the independence of the judiciary of local self-government, and also provides for better regulation of the spheres of defence and security. 
  Author: Inna Kukudjanova ; Source: CK correspondent e21f6204 All news; Politics; Society; Georgia; South Caucasus All news 
The head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, has publicized a video from the village of Benoi showing Shaa Turlaev, announced wanted on suspicion of high-profile murders and murder attempts. Kadyrov has treated Turlaev as "the best of the best." March 24, 2018 20:17 
In Dagestan, in the course of a counterterrorist operation (CTO) in the Botlikh District, law enforcers killed a militant from the terrorist organization "Islamic State" (IS) banned in Russia. March 24, 2018 19:50 
Archil Tatunashvili, a citizen of Georgia, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, was buried on Saturday with military honours into the Brotherly Cemetery in Tbilisi. March 24, 2018 16:40 
It is very difficult to verify whether four natives of Ingushetia and Dagestan killed in Chechens were militants. The former cases of disinformation question the version, stated members of the Human Rights Centre (HRC) "Memorial". March 24, 2018 10:42 
In Grozny, agents of drug control service have seized 14,000 packages of potent anabolic drugs from pharmacies, sports nutrition stores and gyms, the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIA) for Chechnya reported. TOPICS OF THE DAY