23 March 2018, 03:33 Political analysts: Georgian "Otkhozoriya-Tatunashvili List" to toughen sanctions against Russia 
A resolution of the Georgian Parliament on the creation of an "Otkhozoriya-Tatunashvili List", similar in its meaning to the "Magnitsky List", can get a support of the international community. This is to result in toughening of sanctions against Russia, Georgian political analysts report. 
The "Caucasian Knot"   21, Georgian MPs requested the authorities to introduce sanctions against the persons accused of crimes against Georgian citizens in Abkhazia and South Ossetia . 
The list is named after Archil Tatunashvili and Gigi Otkhozoriya, citizens of Georgia, killed in South Ossetia and Abkhazia. 
The MPs tried to correct a mistake of Georgian Prime Minister Giorgi Kvirikashvili, who on March 9 announced that he was ready for a dialogue with Russia, Abkhazia and South Ossetia . This opinion was expressed by Mamuka Zhgenti, a member of the NGO "Georgian Institute of European Values". 
The opposition saw in the Giorgi Kvirikashvili's statement a sign of "powerlessness" and a readiness to concede to Russia. 
The resolution will not be left without attention, since it deals with international humanitarian law and fundamental human rights, believes Kakha Gogolashvili, the head of the Institute for Strategic and International Studies. 
He has noted that the creation of the list should not be regarded as an attack against Russia, since it is about "impunity of cynical murders." 
The list will affect a limited number of people "living in Russia or another country," involved in murders or interfering with investigations into crimes. 
The Magnitsky Act was adopted in the United States against the persons whom the US authorities consider to be responsible for the death of lawyer Sergei Magnitsky. 
  Inna Kukudjanova, Galina Gotua ; Source: CK correspondents e21f6204 All news; Conflicts; Politics; Society; Abkhazia; Georgia; South Ossetia; South Caucasus; Russia All news