Home / policy / Why Russians cling to Putin Why Russians cling to Putin 39 mins ago policy 0 Views 
The current head of state meets the need of the inhabitants of the country to be protected from threats and gives them hope by the simple fact of its existence. 
The Russians — especially in the poorer regions again voted for Vladimir Putin. In social networks wonder why poor people don’t want to change the government. Experts say that it is a natural phenomenon, and that half-empty fridge can cause a political protest, just tenacious myth. Show completely… 
Iskander Jasaveev, doctor of sociological Sciences, senior researcher, CIS, HSE: 
“I on these elections was a member of the Commission voting in Kazan. And one fact struck me. A huge number of voters voted at home — it’s older people, with disabilities. When we at the site connected all the ballots, it turned out that the pack of the portable ballot boxes appeared at the bottom. So, these few tens of ballots, with one exception, was “for Putin”. 
It’s an amazing phenomenon: people who live in appalling conditions, in poverty, the years do not go beyond their very poor apartments, still vote for Putin. 
I think these people just don’t see an alternative. They sit at home and watch TV. They are immersed in telerealite external threats, and Putin seems to them a kind of protector, the Savior of Russia. Hence — and the results of voting at home”. 
Daniil Kotsyubinsky, a candidate of historical Sciences: 
“Most of the voters genuinely voted for the incumbent President. Including — maybe even most — people who feel socially unprotected and insecure. The reason is that it was not so much the elections (of the who), not so much the electoral event, how much of the ritual is autocratic. People leaned mentally, or at least mentally, to a strong leader. It was an act not of rational action and emotional movements of the soul. 
In authoritarian and especially totalitarian systems, it is the people that are least protected, see in the face of strong “leader” fabulous protection from all ills that surround them. In fact, this protection is mythological. Proprietary information but in a country where the propaganda machine assures the people that all problems can be solved with only one person in the world — “our leader” — people are happy to partake of this “leader” by any available means: call “straight lines”, write letters to the presidential administration, well, or go to the polls. And then they think that at least a little on them has resulted in the grace of this great power. This is an archaic activity that has no relation to the concept of “elections”. See also: Minsk is becoming increasingly difficult and with Russia and the West 
A strong “father” of several forms: first, it protects us from enemies, from villains who want to eat us, destroy it. Second, he struggles with injustice, corruption, bad boyars. Thirdly, every orphan he wipes away a tear — you just have to wait your turn. These people came in the hope that someday they, too, will wipe away a tear”. 
Boris Kagarlitsky, Director of the Institute of globalization and social movements, the political scientist: 
“The idea that poor people should vote for the candidate from the opposition — from the political myths that have no relationship to sociology. It all depends on social class and not measured by the level of income. 
A significant portion of these people are just marginal, underclass, and so becomes the clientele of government. It is known since Roman times. The lumpen-proletariat has always been in one way or another, especially in the voting, the support of government — because it simply bribed, in contrast to the more organized segments of the population. The same thing always happened in Western Europe, etc. So there is no surprise, but there is just some ridiculous views that are prevalent in our society. 
What happened on 18 March, it is difficult to call the elections. So how would these people behave if we had an election, — a very different, difficult question.” 
Alexander Konfisachor, candidate of psychological Sciences, associate Professor of political psychology of St. Petersburg state University: 
“First, it is believed that it is always about 30-35% of the population, regardless of their status and position, by definition, support the current government. Even more if you take empirical evidence. 
Secondly, these are people who are easy to manipulate, to inspire any ideas, suggestions. 
And another thing: when you vote for the current government, this does not mean that it is supported. Just the opposition failed to nominate any outstanding, memorable people who are not prepared the necessary fertile ground, was unable to provide the program, taught its supporters, etc. especially, now a situation where “it would not have been worse” and it seems that only the current President will keep the country in a situation in which we find ourselves”. See also: On lies and deceit it is impossible to build a state 
Pavel Kudyukin, a member of the Board of Confederation of labour of Russia, Professor: 
“As a rule, socially disadvantaged people are not very independent, they used to seek support from someone on the side. As the time for elections, the government has taken a number of populist actions — as it was represented at improving the welfare of the socially weak segments of the population, once again buying their support. 
In principle, the majority of Russians is set up so that they will vote for any power — simply because it is the power. That is, if we imagine that re-elected President would be Yavlinsky, they would likewise would have voted for him. 
People tend to act so as not to stand out from their social environment. This is not unique to the Russians, and is very typical behavior for a paternalistic-authoritarian regimes. That is why they rarely change through elections”. 
Petr Bychkov, candidate of psychological Sciences, associate Professor of political psychology of St. Petersburg state University: 
“In all countries the correlation is absolutely straight: the middle class voted for the opposition, and the poor and disadvantaged — for power. 
First, the middle class is mostly people, build your business or career, have a critical thinking. Secondly, they consider themselves worthy to judge the power. They understand that they could in some places to make it better, so vote opposition. Even in Europe. Why is there a crisis of confidence in the government? Because the percentage of people with higher education is large enough, and the higher it is, the less trust in the government. Just because more people are starting to analyze. 
And the poor are always afraid, relatively speaking, to lose the last piece of bread. Another reason is that they do not think, and firmly believe in the party leader.”  