Home / policy / Freedom in Putin’s Freedom in Putin’s 6 hours ago policy 3 Views 
At a recent meeting a German journalist from the “Bild” asked whether Putin will move in the direction of establishing the “iron curtain”. 
My answer was almost unequivocal that it will not — at least, he tries to get out of isolation after agreeing to some concessions in exchange for concessions from the West. 
To make concessions, losing part of the image of the “cool kid”, he convincingly won with nearly 77%, now does not threaten any course of action on his part approved of his flock on March 18, and there is still six years. 
Hide six years behind the “iron curtain” perhaps it is, but, firstly, there is no ideas and few resources, and secondly, it is counter-productive for him personally, unless he suddenly decided to become a twin of the Kim Jong-UN, to turn Russia into a kind of North Korea — which is still unlikely. See also: The Kremlin said the lack Putin plans to participate in the session of the UN General Assembly 
What concessions? 
In the same Donbass, for example, by agreeing to enter the peacekeeping contingent withdrawing military advisers to the beginning and relive once again the Minsk process. 
In the same vein, it costs nothing to go for a pardon Sentsov and other Ukrainian hostages, in return for convicted Russian troops in Ukraine and other our people came back to do some fighting for “Russian world”. 
As such steps will be perceived in the West? 
Yes with a Bang! 
Russian “agents and Trustees” — the same numerous Sidorova in Germany, urban and company in Hungary, Zeman in Czech Republic and other Mari Le foam which due to various scandals related to the actions of Russia and outside, and inside, greatly reduced the possibility of “flushing” for Putin, will get new arguments to demand the lifting of sanctions with Russia and improve relations with her. See also: Kerry: US prevented Putin to seize Kiev 
But most importantly, Putin, yielding in this way, you can earn points for “other” trump knit hands and feet, “the Russian investigation” basis, and are determined to move towards a “friend” of Putin, to surround it with fraternal embrace. 
I admit, incidentally, that list Sobchak with a request to consider the issue of pardoning some convicted by a Russian court, it may be — though not completely — satisfied… and maybe completely. 
Wouldn’t be surprised if it turns out right: a freedom, I suppose, and Putin is better than no freedom. 
Freedom in a different sense of the word.  