Civil society group calls for John Agou’s release File photo: John Agou 
South Sudanese civil society group has appealed the release from detention of John Agou, a businessmen jailed for alleged corruption in President Kiir’s office. 
Agou was one of the 16 individuals implicated in the corruption case in the office of the president. He was arrested in May 2015. 
In December last yes, President Kiir pardoned those who were jailed, but his order excluded Mr Agou. 
The 19 March 2018, a letter carrying the name of David de Dau, the leader of the advocacy group calling itself the Agency for Intervention and Management (AIM) commended President Salva Kiir for the decision he took on 6 December 2017 to pardon individuals who were jailed because of the accusations related to the loss of public funds in the office of the president on medical and humanitarian grounds. 
“The decision shows that you are a forgiving leader who cares about the lives and the wellbeing of your people including those who may have committed crimes. However, one of the individuals by the name of John Agou Wuoi who had been implicated in the case was not pardoned,” the letter reads in part. 
The advocacy, according to the letter, says Agou’s health condition has deteriorated and had declined rapidly because he is suffering from neuralgia which may any time result into paralysis. 
“As such, he has been referred to abroad for further specialized treatment and management that are not possible in South Sudan. It is for this reason that we are appealing to your Excellency to forgive and pardon John Agou Wuoi for his mistakes he might have committed and show him kindness and mercy just like those of you have forgiven and pardoned like Yel Luol Koor who benefited from your kind and forgiving heart,” it adds. 
It asked the intervention of the president to grant pardon or remit prison sentences as stated in article 101 (h) on health and humanitarian grounds by remitting the prison sentence imposed on him by the court in order to allow him undergo medical treatment as recommended by the national medical commission. Share this