BlueBay Asset Management: Easter risk lull ahead of spring revival for risk   
By Mark Dowding, Head of Developed Markets at BlueBay Asset Management 
Having passed the Spring Equinox, days are now longer than nights for those of us in the Northern Hemisphere. However, as with the unseasonably cold weather of late, risk assets seem to be feeling a bit of a chill as investors await sunnier times ahead. 
This week’s FOMC meeting saw the Fed upgrade its assessment on the economy and raise its expected trajectory with regard to the future path of interest rates into 2019 and 2020. However, Treasuries rallied as equities dipped, with Bund yields moving to two-month lows on risk aversion concerns with trade issues driving many of these moves. Ultimately we see Trump’s announcement of USD50 billion in tariffs to be levied on Chinese imports as manageable in the context of overall trade and a bilateral trade deficit of USD375 billion last year. Importantly, the Chinese response so far has been relatively grown up and measured and we are hopeful that it will be possible to avert an escalation into more of a full-blown trade war. Arguably markets and policy makers have been aware of US plans to impose tariffs on China for some time, and we might think that with the bad headlines now out of the way, markets should not drop further in the absence of new information. However, away from trade there have also been a couple of other emerging developments that, in our view, seem to be adding to investor concerns. 
The first of these worries surrounds the rise in US dollar Libor funding costs. Three-month FRA-OIS has more than doubled since the start of the year from 25bps to 55bps, effectively meaning that money markets have ‘added’ an extra 25bps rate hike through wider spreads. Although part of this move is a function of heavy Treasury bill issuance, sales of short-dated corporate bonds (particularly from Asian investors ahead of the end of the fiscal year) and heavy supply has seen a large technical move in spreads, which is something that would normally be witnessed during times of credit stress. Although we feel this pressure is now peaking, heavy ongoing Treasury and corporate supply, amid waning Asian demand for US dollar securities, suggests that part of this move will be retained and consequently this will lead some investors to reflect that the Federal Reserve will need to move its funds rate by less than otherwise would be the case (even though we ourselves don’t believe that this is the way the Fed interprets these sort of moves in the absence of other symptoms of stress). 
The other concern of late relates to the supply/demand picture for US corporate credit more specifically. Spreads have been widening as new securities are issued at a substantial concession to existing paper, thus re-pricing the rest of the market. By way of example, HSBC has just issued tier 1 debt at 6.5%, with its existing issue trading around 5.75% just a few weeks ago, while short-dated debt from a bell-weather such as GE is trading at T+95 from T+30 in the fourth quarter last year. Although underlying credit fundamentals remain robust, poor technicals are a dominant factor for now and we continue to favour euro credit versus US dollar-denominated issuance. 
Notwithstanding these concerns, we would note that, standing back, Treasury yields have traded in a range since the end of January. We feel that stability in yields will beget stability in other markets and once the quarter-end passes, we remain hopeful that risk assets should see renewed demand and that this should lead to a rally in corporate and sovereign spreads in the months ahead. In this context, we are looking at a lot of new issuance as an opportunity to add risk, with spreads in some cases back to 2016 levels. Meetings with policy makers in Brussels continue to paint an upbeat picture with regard to economic prospects in the year ahead and even if recent PMI data in the eurozone have dipped, they remain at very elevated levels. Political risk is seen continuing to abate and with policy set to remain accommodative, this should continue to support markets. 
As we look forward, we expect markets to quieten down over the Easter period with the data calendar relatively light in the week ahead. This leaves us standing by the view that volatility should drop and once quarter-end is out of the way, the backdrop for risk assets should be more constructive as spring properly gets underway. Hopefully it time for the free world’s dear leader to move on from tariffs and bring on the bunnies…