BNY Mellon: Risks And Vulnerabilities   
By Simon Derrick, Chief Currency Strategist, BNY Mellon Market volatility remains a concern for Tokyo Referencing the latest G20 statement might provide early clue of concerns starting to mount Is a return to intervention possible? 
Renewed USD weakness emerging over the past 48 hours suggests that the focus of the FX market is likely to come back onto the possibility of a rapid move down towards the historically key JPY 100 level. This raises the interesting question of how Tokyo would react to such a move. 
There seems reasonable evidence to support the view that the government in Japan (along with the BOJ) has been warily watching the JPY since the start of the year. However, this week saw a small addition to the wording of the G20 statement (“recent market volatility, despite sound fundamentals of the global economy, is a reminder of risks and vulnerabilities”) that indicated these concerns might be mounting, given that this had come at the insistence of Japan’s vice finance minister Minoru Kihara. 
Speaking at a briefing afterwards, Mr Kihara said: “I told the G20 we need to send a joint message on this point, and our view was taken into account in the communique”. Reuters quoted another (unnamed) senior MOF official as saying: “It’s not just currency moves, but the recent market volatility doesn’t reflect fundamentals”. 
This matters given that Japan has typically referred back to the wording of G7/G8/G20 statements when warning markets of possible intervention. 
With question marks over the use (and indeed effectiveness) of monetary policy to tackle currency strength over the past two years or so, it is perfectly possible that Japan could consider returning to direct intervention in the currency market should renewed JPY strength emerge. Were it to consider doing so, then reference to the new G20 wording might provide the clearest signal of its intentions. 
While it might be a little soon to start considering what style this intervention could take, it’s still worth thinking about. Since 1991, the Japanese authorities have intervened on 329 days in USD/JPY. However, the style of intervention has changed over time. 
Prior to 1995 it was common to see other G7 central banks join forces with the BOJ, while thereafter, multilateral operations became very much the exception. Equally, Japan has tried both the drip-drip of stealth intervention (notably during the 2003/2004 campaign) as well as the shock and awe approach of late 2011. 
While the late 2011 campaign of intervention saw the highest average reading of overnight volatility, this was a direct result of the enormous amount of JPY spent on the first day: JPY 8.072 trn. This was the largest daily spend ever, beating the JPY 4.5 trn in August 2011 and the JPY 2.1 trn in September 2010. 
Was this campaign successful? What can certainly be said is that the USD rose from an all-time low of JPY 75.55 to a high of JPY 79.55 on the first day of intervention. 
Moreover, although the USD didn't break back above this high until February 2012, it also never traded below JPY 75.55 again.