Phase One Industrial and Aerialtronics sign partnership agreement 23 March 2018 Phase One Industrial, provider of medium format metric cameras and imaging solutions for aerial applications, announced that it has signed an agreement with Aerialtronics DV, a developer of end-to-end aerial data capture solutions. Together, these companies’ high-end products are opening up new opportunities in high-accuracy mapping and inspection markets. Under this agreement, the companies will cooperate to deliver aerial solutions comprising Aerialtronics DV Altura Zenith UAV integrated solutions with Phase One Industrial’s medium format aerial camera systems, Schneider-Kreuznach and Rodenstock lenses and related software solutions to clients worldwide. A recent client, James Dunthorne of UK-based Plowman Craven has stated: “The embedded solution provided by Phase One and Aerialtronics has been able to mitigate all of the risks associated with aerial data acquisition while surveying large stretches of linear assets in a fraction of time compared to traditional UAVs.” Phase One Industrial aerial cameras continue to be chosen by experts, due to their exceptional accuracy, image quality and coverage that rival large format cameras at a fraction of the price. Built for use on everything from small UAVs to large manned aircraft, Phase One Industrial aerial cameras are easily integrated into existing systems, both onboard the aircraft and in post-production. “The partnership between Aerialtronics and Phase One Industrial enables the seamless integration of high definition, 100MP format cameras into our Altura Zenith drone, said Maurice Raaijmakers, BD Manager Aerialtronics. “This technology offers our customers the opportunity to produce high quality of data, while flying at various distances and altitudes. This means that clients can operate safely, efficiently and smartly. The two high-end products go hand-in-hand and offer a superior solution in aerial data acquisition.” “Phase One Industrial is proud to be working with Aerialtronics as their sensor payload partner,” said Steve Cooper, VP Sales, Phase One Industrial. “This will be a very productive partnership, as we are equally dedicated to helping our clients save time, increase safety and support a better return on their investments. Having a large footprint but still maintaining the high accuracy of the 100MP images from the iXU-1000 on such a stable platform enables the fast and accurate data capture whilst being hugely efficient.”