Zoeken: Zoekopdracht verzenden Tens of thousands of protestors in Washington take aim at politicians and the NRA to end gun violence 1 uur Chip Somodevilla/Getty Tens of thousands of people fed up with gun violence in America converged on Washington on Saturday to call for stricter regulations on guns. Hundreds of other cities across the US and around the world planned solidarity marches as well. The protests – collectively called the “March for Our Lives”– comes just over a month after 17 people were gunned down at a high school in Parkland, Florida. Tens of thousands of students, parents, teachers, and others supporting gun control filled the streets in Washington, DC, on Saturday. source Leah Mills/Reuters Students and families from all over the country traveled to DC to join the march. Students from Centreville, Virginia wear targets on their chests as they arrive for the March for Our Lives rally in DC. source One family from Westchester, New York said they traveled to DC to raise awareness about gun violence and to support the Parkland students. March 24, 2018, Washington, DC, “March For Our Lives” source Nine-year-old Emma Weill-Jones participated in a rally in Philadelphia. source The main event was organized in Washington. Demonstrators gather call for stricter gun legislation and school safety outside city hall in Cincinnati. source On February 14, a gunman shot and killed 17 people at Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School in Parkland, Florida. March 24, 2018, March for Our Lives in Washington, DC source Eliza Relman/Business Insider Student survivors from the massacre, who have since mobilized against gun violence, organized the march. Holding pictures of victims killed in gun violence, people protest gun violence in New York City. source Some celebrities, lawmakers, and gun control groups supported the march, helping fund the organizers and bus people into Washington who otherwise might not have been able to attend. source Hundreds of other protests took place in cities around the world as well. People take part in the “March for Our Lives” outside the US Consulate in Sao Paulo, Brazil. source The protestors aimed their frustrations at the National Rifle Association (NRA), one of the country’s most powerful lobbying groups and a key defender of the Second Amendment. Protestors in New York City. source Gun control activists are also calling on lawmakers who support the NRA to be voted out of office. twitter oEmbedUrl https://api.twitter.com/1/statuses/oembed.json?url=https://twitter.com/eliza_relman/status/977597862585479168?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw This group of sophomores and juniors from Christo Rey high school in Newark took a 5 am bus down to DC today pic.twitter.com/GSG8mNjKf4 
— Eliza Relman (@eliza_relman) March 24, 2018 “We are going to make this the voting issue,” David Hogg, a senior at Stoneman Douglas and staunch supporter of gun control, said during a speech at the march. “We are going to take this to every election in every state and every city. We are going to make sure the best people get into our elections to run not as politicians but as Americans.” David Hogg. Andrew Harnik/AP Gun control activists tend to perceive the NRA as an impediment to what they refer to as “common sense” solutions to gun violence. Mary Pat Gunn, right, cheers as Houston Mayor Sylvester Turner addresses the crowd during a gun control protest in Houston. source David J. Phillip/AP Kyle Kashuv, another student survivor from Stoneman Douglas who has been an outspoken advocate of the Second Amendment, decided not to attend Saturday’s march in DC. Sen. Orrin Hatch, R-Utah, center, hugs Kyle Kashuv, 16, and Patrick Petty, 17, both from Parkland, Fla., following a news conference on Capitol Hill in Washington, Tuesday, March 13, 2018. source Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP Kashuv, who disagrees with gun control and has met with lawmakers to shore up background checks, explained his decision not to attend to Fox Business Network: “I could march, but I think my time would be much better well spent meeting with legislators.” Kyle Kashuv, a student survivor from Stoneman Douglas. source