Celtic Clash 5 – LIVE UNDERCARD UPDATES By Joe O'Neill | on March 24, 2018 | Features Headline News 
The fifth Irish pro show of the year takes place this evening in Dublin. 
Good Counsel GAA club in Drimnagh is the venue for ‘ Celtic Clash 5 ‘ as Dublin boxing gets a long-awaited return to grassroots small hall action. 
Stephen McAfee and Colin O’Donovan rematch for the BUI Celtic super featherweight title in the main event while there is also a six-fight undercard which we will be providing live updates for below: 
You can get involved on Twitter too by including #CelticClash5 to your tweets and they will be included below. Widgets Magazine 
Keep refreshing the page for live updates to appear. 
– 
10:05pm – And that’s it for the undercard, good fun. Now it’s time for the main event. Stay tuned for our full fight report in the next hour. 
Round 3 – Goluch becoming ragged and one of Joyce’s hooks to the body gets through, a peach, right to the solarplexus. …6, …7, …8, …9, he stays down! KO3 Joyce! 
Round 2 – Joyce’s left hook upstairs is hurting Goluch, he’s timing it brilliantly as they exchange. The Pole is tough though. 
Round 1 – Goluch down twice, neither counted – first from a low blow and then having his trailing leg get caught on the ring apron. When he is on his feet, it’s one-way traffic, with Joyce pummelling the body throughout. 
9:45pm – Straight into the penultimate fight here, another welterweight clash between Lucan’s John Joyce and Poland’s Tomasz Goluch. 
9:43pm – And it is. 40-36 for McMahon, a very good performance. Really impressive. 
Round 4 – ‘The Iceman’ is starting to lash in volleys of combinations upstairs as he turns on the style in the final round. Mitev going nowhere though so we must head to the scorecard for what should be a wide McMahon win. 
Round 3 – McMahon is sinking in some beautiful bodyshots here. Mitev gone completely into his shell and the Dubliner is in complete control. 
Round 2 – Smooth work from McMahon who is stalking his Bulgarian foe, picking his shots perfectly and sitting down on them well. 
Round 1 – McMahon looking very sharp, nice straight rights and going to the body well. Mitev hurt but is fighting back to his credit. 
9:22pm – Time for the fifth fight – Keane McMahon v the game Radoslav Mitev at welterweight. 
9:06pm – We will have a short interval now. 15 minutes. 
Round 2 – The dominance continues. An off-balance Ficner grazes the canvas with his glove and is given a count and is then decimated by a straight right which sees the bout instantly waved off by Pádraig O’Reachtagáin. KO2 O’Connor! 
Round 1 – He almost does! O’Connor’s first combination floors Ficner after seconds. The Pole is up and looking to spoil, O’Connor puts him down again, goes for the finish but the journeyman is saved by the bell. 
8:53pm – Next up is Niall O’Connor. The Ballybrack lightweight takes on Marcin Ficner of Poland. Stephen McAfee stopped him in three, Martin Quinn did it in two, can he do it in one? 
8:49pm – It’s a wide win for ‘The Cobra’ McDonald who takes it 40-33 on Emile Tiedt’s card. 
Round 4 – McDonald pushing hard for the stoppage, Slavev almost through the ropes at one stage, but the crafty Bulgarian sees the final bell. 
Round 3 – Slavev’s legs are all over the place but he manages to spoil his way through the third. Every shot from McDonald looks to be hurting him. 
Round 2 – Slavev is a dirty so and so, and has a point docked for excessive holding – which came following numerous instances of hitting on the break and after the bell. McDonald landing hurtfil shots throughout as the visitor clings on for dear life. 
Round 1 – The pair go to war, McDonald throwing huge left hooks, can’t miss, Slavev is down, and again, survives the round. Carl McDonald well and truly is back! 
8:30pm – Here we go! 
8:22pm – Next up will be Jobstown super bantam Carl McDonald who is making his return following defeat to Regan Buckley. He boxes Trayan Slavev. The ‘Cavan Butcher’ @OwenDuffy1 carries big support and big power as he stops Bulgaria’s Antoni Hristov in a minute on his debut. pic.twitter.com/LSfnrZnSbC 
— BOXING IRELAND PROMOTIONS (@LoveIrishBoxing) March 24, 2018 
Round 1 – BOOM – huge left hands from the off from Duffy, Hristov’s nose is all over his face, his legs are gone. He finally hits the floor, rises, staggers, it’s over! TKO1 Duffy, what a debut! 
8:03pm – Duffy, nicknamed ‘The Butcher’, also gives Jono Carroll a run for his money in the best Irish boxing beard stakes – fantastic facial fuzz. 
7:59pm – Next up is another professional debut, Cavan light middleweight Owen Duffy – and the Shercock southpaw has brought a big crowd. He fights Antoni Hristov, ringwalks expected in five minutes 
Congratulations @chris91s who opens @CelticClash 5 and his pro account with a 40-36 win over previously unbeaten Richard Krason of Poland. #CelticClash5 pic.twitter.com/YWt2D3xXGt 
— BOXING IRELAND PROMOTIONS (@LoveIrishBoxing) March 24, 2018 
7:54pm – We go to referee Emile Tiedt’s card and it’s a 40-36 win for debutant Chris Scuvie! 
Round 4 – Scuvie pushing, both boxers tired. ‘The Ghost’ is doing all the work though and a short left counter has Krason on queer street in the final seconds but he makes the bell. 
Round 3 – Some big left hooks from Scuvie as Krason gets on his bike. The Pole is almost down at the end of the round, slumping through the ropes but no KD, correctly, ruled. 
Round 2 – Good short right hand to start the round from Scuvie. Krason coming forward swinging dangerous shots and tieing up, landed a couple, but the better stuff is coming from Scuvie who is trying to stay patient. 
Round 1 – Krason is wild, tough for Scuvie to land anything clean. That said, even cuffing shots are staggering the Pole. 
7:33pm – Time for fight number one – Chris Scuvie v Robert Krason at light heavyweight. 
7:15pm – Slight delay here as the venue – and the patrons – fill up. First fight – the pro debut of big Chris Scuvie to start around 7:30pm. 
6:45pm – Doors are open and action is set to start soon. You can see the running order for tonight HERE. 
Saturday Afternoon – Before the action starts off, why not check out some of Irish-Boxing.com’s coverage from the build-up to the headliner? 
Firstly there is ‘Round Zero’, our first attempt in association with Sideline Films at a head-to-head talk for a domestic dust-up. 
Other Irish fighters around the weight – including BUI Celtic featherweight champion Eric Donovan – have given their thoughts and predictions on the match-up which you can read HERE. 
In what is an oddity for an untelevised small hall show, bookmaking giant SkyBet have been convinced to open a market on the event and you can see the latest odds HERE . 
There certainly is something different about the headline attraction, two novice pros with just six fights between them. However it has captured the imagination and, hopefully, is a sign of things to come. Read what promoter Leonard Gunning had to say about the fight and the Irish scene in general HERE. 
You can also hear from the two fighters themselves. 
Stephen McAfee saying the foreplay is over, now it’s time to smash @CelticClash tomorrow night. #irishboxing pic.twitter.com/jlI5KMzuSO 
— BOXING IRELAND PROMOTIONS (@LoveIrishBoxing) March 23, 2018 
Colin O’Donovan shows he has serious balls ahead of main event bout with Sallynoggin scrapper Stephen McAfee at @CelticClash 5 tomorrow night. ⚽️ pic.twitter.com/wTuocWMDiL 
— BOXING IRELAND PROMOTIONS (@LoveIrishBoxing) March 23, 2018 
Finally there is McAfee and O’Donovan’s first fight from back in December, a six-round drawn epic which you can relive below: Share this: