OldTwitter 
Interestingly, WhatsApp is owned by Facebook which it acquired in 2014 for $19 billion. It is important to note here that as of December 2017, there were 1.5 billion monthly active users in WhatsApp (This is huge). 
Anyway, this tweet by Brian Acton has engendered a lot of responses, one of which is from Elon Musk, the billionaire visionary who is trying to change the world through companies like SpaceX, Tesla and The Boring Company. Elon Musk, Photo Courtesy: CNN 
Disclaimer: I admit it. I am a big fan of Elon Musk. 
Musk responded back to Acton’s tweet saying, “What’s Facebook?”. Clearly, it sounded like a joke response. But it did elicit some interesting replies. 
Someone called @serdarsprofile challenged the manhood of Musk by tweeting, 
“Delete SpaceX page on Facebook if you’re the man?” 
Not the one to back off easily, Elon replied back, 
“ I didn’t realize there was one. Will do.” 
He didn’t stop there. Elon Musk actually deleted the Facebook pages of SpaceX, Tesla, Solarcity and Hyperloop, companies that he owns or founded. 
This prompts a question. So what made Musk delete the Facebook pages of his companies? 
Is it just a response to Facebook’s data scandal or is there something going on between Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg, Founder and CEO of Facebook, the two people who can and probably will change the world in some way if they have not already? Image Courtesy: YouTube 
There have been multiple occasions in which Elon Musk and Mark Zuckerberg have had difference of opinion in the past. 
Elon Musk is one of those people who are very serious about the safety issues that would arise from the development of Artificial Intelligence (AI). In fact, Musk thinks that AI could become a threat to the very existence of human beings. 
He even founded a company called OpenAI , which, in its own words, is 
“discovering and enacting the path to safe artificial general intelligence.” 
Though he is no longer associated with the company (because of “a potential future conflict (of interest)” with Tesla’s AI development for self driving cars) he is still a donor for the company according to the company’s Wikipedia page . 
So it is safe to say that Elon Musk is very serious about the problems posed by AI. 
Back in July 23, 2017, Zuckerberg spent more than an hour talking with people through a Facebook Live broadcast and answering questions. 
One of those questions was, 
“I watched a recent interview with Elon Musk and his largest fear for future was AI. What are your thoughts on AI and how it could affect the world?” 
Zuckerberg said , 
“I have pretty strong opinions on this — I am really optimistic… I think you can build things and the world gets better.” 
“With AI especially, I am really optimistic, I think that people who are naysayers and try to drum up these doomsday scenarios — I just, I don’t understand it. I think it’s really negative and in some ways I actually think it is pretty irresponsible. Because in the next five to 10 years, AI is going to deliver so many improvements in the quality of our lives.” 
Well, that’s a pretty strong opinion. Interestingly, Elon Musk didn’t make any comment on this. 
Nah, I am just kidding. 
Musk shot back with a tweet saying, 
“I have talked to Mark about this. His understanding of the subject is limited.” Courtesy: Hacker Noon 
If you think that was the first time their paths have crossed, you are wrong. 
Back in 2016, Elon Musk’s SpaceX was set to launch multiple satellites including Amos-6, which was supposed to provide Internet service to 14 sub-Saharan African nations for five years. 
Unfortunately, due to an anomaly on the launchpad, Falcon 9, the rocket that was slated to take Amos-6 to the space, exploded. 
This prompted Zuckerberg, who at that time was in Africa, to say , 
“As I’m here in Africa, I’m deeply disappointed to hear that SpaceX’s launch failure destroyed our satellite that would have provided connectivity to so many entrepreneurs and everyone else across the continent.” 
It seems to me that this clash between these billionaires is not going to end anytime soon and I secretly wish Elon Musk wins it. 
I believe that though AI has miles to go before it becomes dangerous to human beings , in the long term, Musk will be proven right. 
The possibilities that AI offers are so high and with necessary safety measures, we can avoid going extinct. It is up to us to wake up and think about the future. 