shittu damilola 0 Comments 
The final trailer for Deadpool 2 has been released by 21th Century Fox which features Ryan Reynolds, Josh Brolin , and Morena Baccarin . The movie would be the eleventh X-men series franchise and which is also a sequel to 2016 Deadpool which had a production budget of $58 million and made over $783 million, which made the movie a box office hit in 2016. 
The sequel is directed by David Leitch who replaced Tim Miller in October 2016 due to creative differences with Ryan Reynolds. The movie introduced a new villain known as Cable (Josh Brolin) who was sent back in time to murder a mutant who is still a child at the time. Wade Wilson (Ryan Reynolds) realized that he could not allow Cable (Josh Brolin) to kill the child and he decides to assemble a team known as X-Force to fight with Cable. Wade fights with ninjas and the Yakuza gang in this new action-packed movie. The movie features Julian Dennison, Zazie Beetz, Stefan Kapicic, Jack Kesy, T.J Miller, and others. 
However, the filming started on June 17, 2017, in Victoria, Canada, and Jonathan Sela served as the cinematographer for the movie. The filming witnessed a tragic event such as the death of stuntwoman Joi Harris who died in a motorcycle accident while portraying the Domino wig character. There have been speculations about the incident from stunt professionals that because Harris is a professional road racer does not qualify her to be a stunt performer in such movies. The film production was shut down immediately after the tragic event but returned two days later. 
The movie which was set to be released on June 1, 2018, will be now released on May 18, 2018 and the music composer for the movie will be handled by Tyler Bates due to the absence of Junkie XL who was in charge of the previous movie, who chose not to return for the sequel due to Miller’s departure. There have been reports that Deadpool 3 is in development and it is has been revealed by Disney CEO Bob Iger after the acquisition of 21st Century Fox that Deadpool will be part of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. 
