Computers / Need a good reader for "Android"? Choose from among the best 
Whatever may be said of physicians about the dangers of reading with a smartphone screen, no one will stop absorbing new book, using improvised devices. It's very convenient. However, not every reader boasts an abundance of features and stability. Therefore, this article describes the best and most popular options. Easy to install data reader for Android. In Russian you can download any edition. AlReader 
Perhaps AlReader - the oldest reader for mobile OS. The app was released in 2009. Then it was running Android 1.6. By optimising the code, the program is only six megabytes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the utility is constantly improved. It appears new functionality. AlReader is able to access almost all electronic text formats. The only drawback of the application it is not able to work with formats Djvu and PDF. The author says that doesn't want to turn the program in a "hard processor". In his opinion, a good reader for "Android" should be easy and fast to use minimum system resources. 
AlReader can work with archives. Almost any action you can perform swipe. Also the application includes the flipping pages with animations. The program can reproduce it using almost any TTS engine. It is worth saying that the utility is on the screens that are implemented on the technology of electronic ink. If you need a good reader for "Android" of the old version, AlReader - best choice. The program is absolutely free. The developer frequently answers questions in the comments of Google Play. Cool Reader 
CoolReader is the app, which leads the development Russian programmer Vadim Lopatin. Users of Google Play have downloaded it on their smartphones more than ten million times, and numerous fan-sector indicates the high quality of the product. In addition to popular formats, this one reader is able to work with CHM-files. The program's design is somewhat outdated. Main menu made in the form of a wooden bookshelf. The background reminiscent of yellowed paper, and icons are very similar to icons in Windows XP. However, as you should not judge a book by its cover, and you should not delete the e-reader from list of top because of the menu design. 
Background read books you can always change to any other. This free reader for "Android" is a file Manager, support for speech engines that are modified profiles for day and night, support for third-party dictionaries, the ability to search for books in the online store. The developer claims that support the FB2 format to its offspring is realized most fully. No mobile program today falls short of CoolReader. The application is free, there is no advertising. PocketBook Reader 
PocketBook Reader - reader developed by Obreey Products. It has attracted customers with quality and cute design. The control circuit is arranged a little unusual for programs of this kind. Instead of a large number of side panels or swipe, it is enough to click on the screen to display the radial menu. Swipe to the side of any item will launch the appropriate option. I must say that the application is able to open files of Djvu and PDF. Reader for "Android", however, works with all popular formats of text information. 
PocketBook allows the user to leave notes in the book itself. Flipping pages can be set to volume rocker, taps on the screen or swipe. For text translation use third-party dictionaries that are not included in the standard program. They will have to download and install separately. The app contains no in-app purchases and advertising. The interface is presented entirely in Russian. PocketBook Reader is the best choice for those who prefer programs like "ten in one". People who love minimalism, this ebook reader "Android" will scare away too many functions. FBReader 
FBReader is a cross platform product. It works in such popular operating systems as Android, Mac, Windows, BlackBerry. That is, the user will be able to read books in one and the same program on any platform. The app interface is easy and intuitive. Allows the reader to access books in EPUB, FB2, HTML, DOC, TXT, RTF. This is only limited by the functionality of the standard version. Want more? Install additional plug-ins. Fortunately, they have a great many. And they are all available in the Google. 
This is a good app for "Android" allows you to install third-party fonts, to change the skin for different time of day, to customize the interface. The program has full support for E-Ink screens. Books can be synchronized by using the built in service. But if he doesn't appeal, nothing will prevent to connect to the Google cloud. Moon+ Reader 
This program is a native of China. It was there that he invented the paper, which long remained the only carrier of textual information. Although the developed application in Hong Kong, it is completely Russified. Of course, sometimes the menu items to see the English text, but this does not prevent. Moon+Reader is a very good eReader on the "Android". It is difficult to enumerate all of the many formats that it is able to work. In addition, the books stored in the archives will also easily open a program without further manipulation in third-party file managers. 
Schemes for different time of day already set up and included in the standard set of Moon+Reader. They can be custom configured. Management for page turning are changeable. And if you click on the screen do not want to, control can be exercised by the volume rocker. To set up the program to sync with DropBox, the user will always be sure bookmarks are never lost. This possibility should pay attention to someone who has several working gadgets or likes to test new firmware. Moon+Reader supports EPUB3 format. It was created specifically for books that include audio and video. This fact deserves special praise. Disadvantages of Moon+Reader 
Even Though Moon+Reader - a good reader for "Android", it has its drawbacks. First, the program is free with limited functionality. If it is to pay the developer, from time to time on the smartphone screen will display promotional offers. Second, the PDF format is not supported in the free version. Third, there is no file synchronization with a network storage. ... 