Riot   
In the history of the landfill occurs in Volokolamsk the usual contradiction, characteristic of the current regime: the situation is clearly out of control, once the serfs, and even the provincial (and therefore loyal by definition) came to rebel. On a dump and a threat to the health taxable estate, of course, the authorities do not care deeply and grind. 
The reasons are quite well-known, clear and nepredosuditelnaya: suburban officials decided to stick to the Moscow financial flows, and therefore personally sparrows in the time made Putin permission to close nearly two dozen landfills in the suburbs, talking about the unprecedented electoral effect and the notice of the inhabitants from the wisdom of the authorities and personally of the President. 
Part of the landfills have closed, but the problem about the pool and two pipes will not go away: the remainder of the landfill (including the landfill near Volokolamsk) began to be filled with a much more accelerated pace, and therefore, reclamation (in fact, trivial to fall asleep the ground layers of garbage) just do not have time for multiples increasing volume of garbage. 
The meaning of the closing of the dumps was simple and unpretentious – their owners were loyal to the suburban manual, converting loyalty into gratitude and a rejection of the increased financial flows: the mayor generously pays for garbage removal (up to 3 thousand rubles per ton), so that the increase in volumes exported of shit for the remainder of the landfill showered Golden rain for all involved. Overall, nothing bad from the point of view of the medieval rent-seeking economy Vorobyov and his team did: Moscow lives at the expense of service of Moscow, and therefore any suburban Governor sastrigal their annuity from all Moscow flows the current in his direction. Closed landfills whose owners showed obstinacy or were players of some other people’s feuds. Nothing personal, estates way is the only way. See also: The Russian foreign Ministry does not believe that there was a "pivot" to Asia 
In General, the cause is known. Chief among them: gross incompetence of everyone – from the Governor’s team to the President, who gave the nod to an environmental catastrophe in exchange for the shining prospects of people’s emotion. Disaster nobody wanted, it was inevitable. Now you need to face the consequences. 
But the problem is that to make personnel decisions (Vorobyov and need to be removed, even by the standards of Putin’s Russia heavy hardware there is a crime) should not be under the pressure of the crowd. God forbid people have a conditioned reflex that the Governor can be removed, coming against him to the rally. At the time Kaliningrad in unison came out against their Governor Gorbenko, structure of hardware of the crimes there was great and extensive, but Putin took Gorbenko much later, to the causal link between popular unrest and the resignation was not so noticeable. 
Here the same picture: to remove Vorobyov immediately after the rebellion is to create a precedent. Commercials today, the crowd will remove the Governor, and decides tomorrow that also can be removed and the Minister, the Prime Minister, and there you see, and about the anointed mind? Fuck you primates… 
Therefore, the problem. It is clear that until the summer (as said optimistically sparrows) the problem will not solve it. Disaster is comprehensive, even if the urgency of a strong-willed decision to open a previously closed landfill, it will take much more time (especially because these dumps will begin again the serious fight in the offices of streams, then who will control and cut? Whose team? It is a question Oh what important). In addition, to save the ecology of Volokolamsk and the surrounding area for three months also will not work – this is a disaster, but because to dig it need to be long. See also: Rostislav Ishchenko: Putin's ultimatum 
Most likely, the question will pass to the Federal level, and the suburban landfills, will the government. Some of the interagency fire team Ministry together with the MOE, Ministry of health and other. They too will need a couple months to agree among themselves, and then there’s inauguration, the new government, tapped and shrinkage among Federal officials. In General, the problem is clearly not postponed even for the summer, and even further. Well, there is the under cover will be removed, and Vorobyov – and so any associations with meetings in Volokolamsk was not in sight. 
On the downside, naturally, the serfs and their worthless health, but now the main problem is only one control. It is impossible that the inhabitants of the barracks behind barbed wire could even think to speak out against the camp administration. This is a key task in any concentration camp – to crush the rebellion in the Bud. At least there you die, but your only purpose is to pay taxes and cast a ballot in the ballot box. The rest is none of your business, there are bosses.  