Home / policy / Foreign policy situation after the elections in Russia Foreign policy situation after the elections in Russia   
After the message of President RF to the Federal Assembly and ended with incredible pomp the next election GDP on international markets began to take shape, or rather, to continue with twice the speed of the opposition Liberal Globalization and Imperialism. The Russian Federation is trying from the Liberal globalism of the 90s to return to the stage of Imperialism is faced with very serious opposition from the Liberal Globalism, so-called “civilized” of the Western Alliance. With a zeal worthy of a better Euro-Atlantic Alliance is trying to return Russia to Liberal Globalism. Hailed as one of the main directions of the anti-personality of GDP, the alleged usurper of power, the enforcer of the interests of “civil society” and the oppressor of freedom. In fact, this conflict is much deeper than trying to present the scientists as the Western bottling and homegrown. 
Let’s leave aside the absolutely unsubstantiated assaults of the globalists, and the clumsy attempts of the Russian national-patriots to prove his innocence and precise implementation of certain international agreements. The fact that capitalism has reached its highest stage of development under Imperialism, clearly aware that the development of production will lead objectively to the death of capitalism, as a socio-economic formation. Therefore, capitalism entered into the stage of liberal globalism is trying to reverse history and lead humanity on a downward spiral, while maintaining the capitalist mode of production through neo-feudalism by parabolani. In fact, we are aware of. Relationships within the Euro-Atlantic Alliance represents the relationship between the suzerain and vassals. Hence the requirements with the leaching of hands for Atlantic solidarity, the demands increase allodium increase through contributions in NATO. As the ideological justification of the theory of Fukuyama about the end of history. As security liberal globalization supranational structure. First, financial: international Monetary Fund and the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Second, economic: Transnational corporations. Third, trade: world Trade Organization. Fourth, the trial: the international Tribunal in the Hague and the Court of human rights. Fifth, power: NATO and Interpol. 
Please note that all of the above organizations require the rule of their Statute over national legislation, and recognition of this rule should be enshrined in the constitutions of national States. Therefore, objectively assessing the situation, we can say that the world has entered the era of the General crisis of capitalism. That is why the subjects of liberal Globalism clutched in mortal combat with the agents of imperialism (Russia, China, INDIA). The rest of the world, in different phases of capitalism from free competition capitalism to Liberal Globalism carefully watch who will win who to side with. After the demonstration, the message of some samples of new weapons systems of the Russian Federation (which in fact, and which are not – the future will tell) and elections in Russia, the population of the world’s peoples are in a situation of a sharp aggravation of conflicts and the real threat of war. And war n the world, and a succession of local wars, which will inevitably encompass countries which are on the periphery of capitalism. Therefore, in our opinion is sharply relevant is the proposal of Lenin on the transformation of the imperialist, and in its current state just capitalist wars in the overthrow of the capitalist socio-economic formations on Earth. See also: When the girls ask foreigners about football. Confederations Cup in Russia 
In order to prevent the extermination of the peoples imposed on them in proxy wars (Yugoslavia, Iraq, Libya, Syria), Communists must explain to the peoples of their countries the essence of the conflict. Not paying attention to the capitalists of different countries, trying to tell their people that “they are good and bad enemies” to fight for the elimination of the capitalist mode of production based on private ownership of the means of production. It is the private property of the means of production in the system of the mode of production creates every single moment of capitalism. We must fight not with symptoms but with the disease. 
The situation shows us that it’s time again to restore the system of proletarian internationalism. And not only in one country, but across the world. It is necessary to explain to employees that, in putting forward only economic demands, they put themselves in a losing position. Only on the basis of political demands and the same for all workers to build this system of proletarian internationalism. When political demands put forward no matter where, workers recognized their common political demands, and when the support of these political demands will make more and more massive, and then it will start to develop system and structure of proletarian internationalism and proletarian solidarity. For employees enemy is not the people of a neighboring state, and those of his exploits, alienating in their favor. And no matter what name the exploiters and the exploited, it does not matter that we both entered in the nationality column. There is a real antagonistic confrontation between the exploiter and the exploited. Workers must be absolutely indifferent to a showdown between the capitalists of different countries and different stages of capitalism. They don’t have to die to themselves and die for their children over the interests of a capitalist clan. Of course, the issue of protecting the homeland from attack dual interpretation has not. The worker needs to protect their Homeland, but should not participate in the aggressive attacks of the capitalists with each other. In light of this, for example, interspecies showdown between the States of Russia and Ukraine is one thing, but protection of workers in Ukraine from the Nazis is quite another. See also: MAYOR: Russia is out of recession, but fell into stagnation 
The main thing – not to confuse one with the other. In conclusion, I want to say. All of the above clearly proves that the time has come for the decisive battle against capitalism, as a socio-economic formation. Not to improve capitalism, and its destruction is the main task for the Communists. The improvers of capitalism in the bourgeois participate in a variety of games is nothing but lackeys of capitalism and one of its groups on the dissociation of the wage earners among themselves on a national basis. How would these participants did not identify themselves, no matter what euphemisms and brands in the name of their organizations they are not used – they are the chaff of capitalism, its social minions. So it is necessary to treat them. And also carry with them a decisive struggle, as capitalism of the various persuasions and justifications. 
The end of history will not be the decisive struggle of the proletariat against capitalism and its final victory. 
Mark Sorkin  