Home / Weapons / German experts do not believe in the new weapons German experts do not believe in the new weapons 5 hours ago Weapons 2 Views 
Experts of the German Federal Academy for security policy (Bundesakademie für Sicherheitspolitik) has prepared a working note – writes the sociologist Valery Savelyev. – And do not believe in the Russian successes in the development of weapons systems, announced the President of Russia on March 1 address to the Federal Assembly. 
“A new weapon from the message of President Putin to the Federal Assembly actually is not, – says Valery Savelyev. There’s only ICBM PC-28 “Sarmat”– Satan-2 by NATO classification.”Sarmat” bears 10-24 warheads. Range (11 thousand km) allows you to strike the U.S. both through the North and through the South pole.They are really invulnerable to the us missile defense system. 
IDB “Sarmat” were successfully tested in December 2017 and now will replace the Ukrainian P-36M. But that’s all! Nothing more. The remaining weapons are “mostly are, most likely, not even in the testing stage, and only in drawings”. 
The conclusion does not look very confident, but that doesn’t change the fact. German experts do not believe in military miracles of the message of the President of FS. And skepticism enshrined in this rationale:- from attempts to create a cruise missile with a nuclear engine and, accordingly, a practically unlimited radius of action of the United States refused in the 1960-ies;- program of development of hypersonic vehicles in the United States are frozen (research on this, according to experts of the German Academy, still under way in Russia, China and India, but without much success);- laser weapons are too powerful, “enormous” energy, so far from adopting. In the US it is, but used in a very limited scale. Finished with the Message and missiles, German experts took over everything else – tanks, planes, ships, money. 
Tank not re-occur – it is planned to produce only 120 pieces T14 “Armata” in the year. Originally wanted to buy about 2,300 units by 2020, but has now postponed the purchase until 2025. The United States in their nuclear strategy was listed as a Russian threat of strategic bomber of the new generation of the PAK DA (promising aviation complex long-range aviation, factory designation “article 80”). The adoption was scheduled for 2020, but the prototype is never seen again.So now decided to resume production of the old Soviet TU-160 in a modernized version of the TU-160M2. Of the eight strategic submarines of class “Northwind”, which was supposed to come into service by the end of 2017, in order, apparently, only three. Class “Ash” is one. Submarines of the new generation – design class “Husky” will begin to replace the samples no earlier than in 2025. Helicopter own production will be released in the sea not before 2026. Class frigate “Admiral Gorshkov” (scheduled from three to six by 2020) only in the current year, will undergo sea trials. Since the 90-ies of the last century, Russia has not built a single warship larger than a frigate. See also: In Texas, students were allowed to go to school with guns 
It follows that none of the projects will likely not be implemented in the next 10 years. Military expenditures in recent years have grown. For the period from 2006 to 2016, they more than doubled ($70 billion). Costs have increased by 7.9 per cent per year, with an average GDP growth of 3.4 per cent. But China ($215 billion) has a military budget more than 3 times more. The US military budget – 611 billion. 
The Russian defense budget is comparable to budgets of countries such as France (55 billion), India (55), UK (48). After writing the note, President Putin has announced a reduction in defense spending. And then the”Deutsche Welle” compares public opinion in Russia and in Germany. FOM in Russia found:- 75% of Russians would like Russia to be feared; – 86% believe that Russia is really afraid of. A survey in Germany showed that 91 per cent of Germans no fear of the military power of Russia. Among young people aged 18 to 29 years, those even more – 98%. Ordinary Germans are not afraid of military power of Russia. German military experts explain to the government that fear is really nothing. This. Who is underestimating whom?” See also: Filmmakers urged new Yorkers to ruin posters "Jason Bourne" 
“Sarmat” there is, too, like the rest of the destruction only on paper and in wishlist corrupt Generalov, as a pretext for further respring and transference of dough offshore, writes zol_dol. – Testing the flying sarmata was not the current throw – empty tank, so to test 5-8 years more, and then if suddenly respring and offshoring stop – but this is an unscientific fantasy. “Sarmat”, which will replace “Satan” is a bluff…Alas, on combat toons resident of nadezha no. The single remaining Soviet missiles launched in response will be shot down pindoskih ABOUT, but such is not…” 
“The Germans do not believe that people who can’t make a normal car,appliances, or electronics can do a normal weapon,” writes pasika_lviv_ua. 
“Nodding from conversations with adherents of a TV can attest: adherents believe that Russia can all show the mother – says jafarov.- For them and write is a Federal opus”. 
“Ordinary Germans are not afraid of military power of Russia.” And rightly so, that not afraid, then ordinary Germans do not believe “gebelawi propaganda” of the state Department about “aggressive Russia”. It is better to trade than to fight it and safe and profitable,”– said bliz_44. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share