Education / What current is dangerous AC or DC? The results of the research 
Voltage 220 V "goes" in any modern apartment, and then diverges to the outlet. Consequently, people in apartments, there is always the danger of electric shock. However, the current in the socket is always variable, and its direction of electron flow changes 100 times per second, that is, changing poles "plus" and "minus" in some places. In most cases, the man shocks it-variable type. DC current required to operate any appliances in the home, and it becomes constant after the transformations in the power supply. Let's see what the current threat – AC or DC. Result 
Thanks to an in-depth study of electrical shocks, scientists have been able to find out what the current threat – AC or DC. Scientists of the Academy of Sciences of Kyrgyzstan in laboratory experiments on dogs were able to obtain new data on the ratio of the risk of direct and alternating current at rated voltages 12, 36, 120 V. 
It Turned out that in the standard situation where the electrodes are located at the extremities of the person, a danger at a voltage of 120 VDC is equal to about hazards at a voltage of 42 V AC. Also DC network voltage 108 can affect the person, as well as the current network with a voltage of 36 V. 
All this allows to understand what the current threat – AC or DC. Both can harm a person, only in the case of DC voltage must be higher. Therefore, the chance of a burn or other damage from direct current is much lower. Electrode placement 
But in 1903 it was found that the risk largely depends on the poles of the DC source. In cases when the electrode with the negative pole connected to the upper part of the body, and the electrode with the positive pole-to the bottom, the danger of infection is much higher than the reverse arrangement. Scholar of Agibaev developed this statement, and his studies on dogs confirmed that fibrillation occurs earlier exactly at the location of the electrode with the negative pole at the top. However, the reaction of different animals may vary. 
In 1970-1972 studies have been conducted Guderski, which was to compare the evaluation of the effect of a constant current of industrial frequency. In the course of the study, the researchers gradually increased the voltage from zero, the result of the severity of animals at a constant current was much lower (several times) in comparison with the severity of lesions in AC (frequency in this case was equal to 50-60 Hz). This again gives to understand what the current threat – variable and constant. Transient supply voltage 
If you apply the voltage of both types of currents of short duration, the differences in effect would be significant. This allows scientists to claim that the view of the lesser danger of DC is incorrect, at least for the formation of an electric circuit passing through the human body, that is, for the moment of "switching on". Spasmodic reactions 
Scientists Guderski and Teresa attempted to explain the difference in effect on people of AC and DC. They came to the conclusion that the latter does not cause convulsive reactions that do take place at defeat of the person by alternating current. There are also no limit values neubuschweg constant current and no biophysical justification for the formation of protective actions to protect people from hitting it with direct current. However, even called neotpuskayuschego current can cause paresis of the muscles of the hands. 
It would Seem that it is now very clear how much amperage is dangerous. AC and DC have different harmful effects in humans. Although direct current may cause spasm, the voltage should be high enough to provide a complex of protective measures is simply impossible. If the DC current will be very high, that is another danger – garbage-affected leading parts which are under voltage. This feature of AC is extremely rare. The result discarded can get even a physical injury, which, depending on the conditions of man's fall can be fatal. It completely confuses people and makes it impossible to determine precisely what the current threat – AC or DC. 
It is Also worth noting that when touching live parts (for example, on the rectifier), where a pulsating current may even lead to convulsive reactions, because there is a variable component. Alternating current is more dangerous 
Unfortunately, scientists still can not accurately answer what the current threat – AC or DC, and why. This problem is solved today is not enough, but attempts to study it being made, because the elimination of this gap will allow a deeper study of the Biophysics of electric shock, and further effective to treat it, not to mention the possibility of creating protective measures to prevent the impact of the person by DC. 
However, we can safely say that at a smooth increase in voltage DC danger to humans is much less. A blow from him can be obtained when voltage is not less than 120 V, while the alternating current is able to harm a person only if the voltage is 42 V. Also, scientists in the research came to the conclusion that the probability of formation of dangerous electrical circuit in the body of a man higher in lesions with alternating current. In conclusion 
Now we understand why and what is the current threat – AC or DC. However, DC does less harm only in home conditions (home), and defeat of direct current at very high voltage, maybe just hard to swing it that caused mechanical trauma. ... 