Computers / The GeForce 8800 GT: overview, reviews and testing 
Video Card from NVIDIA are traditionally regarded as one of the best on the market in terms of a combination of quality, performance and price. This pattern emerged quite some time. It can be traced, in particular, for example, NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT, which was developed by the brand to the market in 2007. Its impressive specifications and performance — among the main factors the continuing demand for this device today in Russia and abroad. What is particularly notable appropriate graphic adapter? General information about the device 
NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT — the device, replacing the graphics card 8800 GTX, which is classified as more productive and expensive. The devices vary on several parameters. First, it is the memory bus. Card GeForce 8800 GT has a corresponding component with a width of 256 bits, predecessor — 384. The more RAM, the new device — 512 MB (except some models — this nuance will be described later), the 8800 GTX-768 MB. Some characteristics of the GeForce 8800 GT is ahead of its predecessor. So, this card has 56 texture units, while the model 8800 GTX — 32. 
As we noted above, considering the graphics adapter was released by NVIDIA in 2007. It is legally considered as an outdated model of graphics card, however, due to the high performance of this device is still popular in Russia. The device was produced by several brands under license from NVIDIA. Among the most famous manufacturers of this card-Palit, Leadtek, Galaxy, XFX, Asus. 
The Differences between them are small — they are mainly related to the design of devices, at least — indicators nominal frequency of the major hardware components. In some cases, can produce cards with increased RAM, for example, such as the Asus EN8800GT. In this video card - 1 GB of RAM. 
It is Difficult to distinguish in the line device specific factory designs the best graphics cards, and those that are much inferior to them. Prices of graphics cards produced by different firms, are also comparable. 
Among the direct competitors of the device from NVIDIA-the Radeon HD 2900 XT from AMD. Later we will consider the test results of the device — in comparison with the performance as vnutribrtnnoe counterparts, and the solutions from AMD. Features 
The Next interesting aspect of the research GeForce 8800 GT — features. The key terms of graphics performance hardware component — the G92 processor. This chip operates at a frequency of 600 MHz. The processor is made in accordance with the technological process 65 nm. The G92 chip has 16 ROP units. 
Regarding RAM — on the market, NVIDIA is supplying the graphics card in two versions. In the first version of GeForce 8800 GT-512MB, the second — 256. Both versions are equipped with modules of DDR3 RAM. The frequency of the Shader units of the graphics card — 1500 MHz. Pick and appearance 
As we noted above, the appearance of the cards depending on the particular manufacturer can be slightly different. If we consider the sample from XFX, supplied the graphics adapter present: actually, the video card, adapters, additional power cord, CD with drivers. As required for proper installation GeForce 8800 GT driver can be downloaded online. As noted by some users in the sales package graphics adapter from XFX is the drive on which the recorded game Company of Heroes. 
The cooling System covers the entire space of the device. In its structure there are copper and aluminum components. Using copper heat removed from the processor, and then displayed on the heat sink and dissipated by the fan. Directly below it is the slot for additional power. The image is displayed on the screen via the DVI connectors. 
If we talk about modifying the graphics card manufactured by Palit — the graphics adapter includes 16 chips. Actually, the same — a branded device from NVIDIA. Are the RAM modules on different sides of the graphics card — for 8 pieces, they are placed in a semicircle. The reverse side of the device from Palit is covered with a protective plate, which is part of the cooling system. It has tabs for the RAM modules. On the front side of the device — the other plate, it is similar to the shape of a boomerang. It can be noted that the heatsinks for the RAM do not interact with the fan for the CPU. In turn, the integrated graphics chip is made in the form of a star, and the fan installed in the center of the structure. Vnutriportovaya competition 
Vnutribrtnnoe Closest competitor consider considered device graphics adapter GeForce 8800 GTS, also developed by engineers NVIDIA. What are the main differences between them? 
So, in competing solution more universal processors — 128. In GeForce 8800 GT-112. For textured blocks ahead of the competitor also consider the graphics card. He has established in number of 64 units. Both devices, however, have the same bus-256 bits. Both installed the same CPU — G92. Some economic benefits — in the period of active sales, had the GeForce 8800 GT. The price of this device was lower than that set for the competition. Now both devices are quite difficult to find on the shelves of the official salons — typically, these video cards are sold through private ads, and cost is the same — about 1500 RUB. Overclocking 
A Feature of the graphics adapter 8800 GT is that it can be successfully disperse. The brand-manufacturer loyal to the appropriate procedure, even if it is implemented by the plant, which manufactured graphics card. The factory overclocked graphics adapter can be made even more powerful and manually. The nominal frequency of the processor installed on the graphics card, you can increase about 40-50 MHz, the corresponding figure for the memory — at 100 MHz. 
Limits the frequency of the graphics chip that failed to reach the specialists, who have tested the graphics card — about 730 MHz. It can be noted that Shader unit operates on frequencies which are independent of those that are regulated by the user in the process of acceleration. The experts were able to bring the corresponding figure to around 1800 MHz. As for memory speeds — it is feasible to ensure its growth during acceleration up to about 1 GHz. 
Experts recommend that users consider the procedure very carefully to work with the processor. So, at the excessive increase in its frequency of video card can start to work with noticeable failures, making it impossible to work comfortably on a PC. Cooling System 
This video card is equipped with one of the most effective — at least at the time of its release to the market of cooling systems. This hardware component is of great importance: the device can stably operate at high frequencies — achieved, for example, because of acceleration, only if it is equipped with a cooling system required power and efficiency. 
According to the tests conducted by IT specialists, video card NVIDIA GeForce 8800 GT are well protected from overheating. So, when you run demanding games — relative to the possible heating performance by approximately 10 degrees. In some cases — for example, when you run demanding games, can be fixed the GPU temperature about 85 degrees.To measure the temperature in the process of certain experiments with the addition of the experts recommend using the program RivaTuner. 
Some experts believe the cooling on the graphics cards directly from NVIDIA and those brands that use the same hardware component — in particular, XFX, less effective than the one installed, for example, the adapters 8800 GT, manufactured by Palit. So, tests graphics adapters from this brand showed that even in active load matching devices do not heat over 65 degrees. However — such a result is accompanied by quite a noticeable noise level. 
It is Worth noting that at minimum load - for example, when working in the normal Windows application that generates a 2D image, while the game — suggesting the activation of the 3D mode, this card from NVIDIA are functioning at a reduced frequency. In this case, the cooling fan significantly lowers the speed, whereby the noise level of the corresponding hardware component is reduced. Thus, the efficiency of the cooling system of the device, very high. However, its main hardware component — the fan, as we noted above, sometimes noticeably noisy. Performance 