by Julie Kruijs Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisbon’: tasty croissants, Portuguese vintage & ceramic penis tradition 
Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ is responsible for the delicious smell 🙂 wafting through the street Rua da Madelena in Lisbon.. 
Bakery (padaria )/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ : delicious handmade rustic bread and croissants 
‘Fábrica Lisboa’ has its own production , which means that croissants, bread, pies or cakes are constantly coming out of the oven in front of the customers. Traditional portuguese soups, sandwiches made with rustic bread, pies and fresh salads are also served. 
Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ Rua da Madalena 121, Lisbon 
Funny Portuguese vintage decoration 
When you pass through Rua da Madalena and you hear a bell it’s fresh bread/croissant time! But this space really deserves a longer visit to appreciate the vintage decoration with delightful and funny details, like old scales, bottles, bread boxes, old phones or pornographic cassettes. Even the coffee machine is vintage…… ! 
Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ & my favorite croissant with almonds spread ( amêndoa ) 
Among the things of the past , take your time to enjoy a ‘late breakfast’ or a snack with salad or scrambled eggs with ham, accompanied by rustic bread. 
Croissants ‘old nunnery style’ 
There«s more than 10 different croissants, from simple (plain, € 1.20), old nunnery style (with sweet-soft egg cream, € 1.20, created by nuns who lived in monasteries with a lot of chickens in the garden… 🙂 to extra large: 2 fried eggs, tomato, cheese, ham, salad and chips ( € 7.00). 
My favorite : a sweet croissant with almonds spread ( amêndoa ) € 2,20. 
Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ : friend Margriet de Vrieze loves this place. Tea ( chá ) € 1.75 
Cartoon character Zé Povinho – symbol of the Portuguese working-class 
The cartoon character Zé Povinho was created by satirist and designer Bordalo Pinheiro in 1875 , a symbol of the Portuguese working-class people, as a caricature for the protest against the politics and the high taxes for the simple population. Still nowadays every child in Portugal knows Zé Povinho . ‘Zé’ ( José or Joseph in English), ‘ Povinho’ is a diminutive for ‘Povo’, which means ‘people’. 
Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ & Zé Povinho, symbol of the Portuguese working-class people 
Ceramics from Caldas da Rainha 
Cal das da Rainha , north of Lisbon, is well known for its wonderful ceramic pottery with a long tradition. The output includes large decorative pieces, crockery, tableware and decorative objects, famous all over the world for its unique (and sometimes funny) designs. Where to find in Lisbon: More… 
Bakery/cafe ‘Fábrica Lisboa’ , Wifi corner & vintage decoration 
Phallus ceramics, a Portuguese tradition 
Why is there a ceramic penis between the vintage decoration? Some centers of ceramic production in Caldas da Rainha has a tradition of phalluses and amusing phallic symbols. The tradition is said to have started in Caldas when King Dom Luis, who ruled from 1861 to 1889, suggested that local potters create something more interesting 😉 Penis-shaped ceramics