Computers / Monitors Eizo: review the best models and reviews 
The Japanese company Eizo is primarily engaged in manufacturing high quality gaming monitors. The resolution of the models is in the area of 1300 1920 pixels. In this case, the coating most often used is matte. If we talk about design features, it is important to note some interesting highlights. Some models have a built-in type tuner for viewing TV programs. The same can be said about the camera. However speakers of nearly all models available. 
Speaking about the main parameters of the monitors, it is important to note that the rate of the average brightness is 320 CD / sq meter. The contrast in this case is 1000:1. To adjust the position of the monitor is set to the rotating mechanism. The height of the rack also have the option to customize. The horizontal angle of the models is quite different. In this case, a lot depends on the type of matrix. If we talk about gaming monitors Eizo, it is usually a series of IPS. Average is a good model in the area of 45 thousand. Model Overview Foris FG2421 
If you believe the customer reviews, the color reproduction of this monitor is all right. In this case, the contrast is easy to configure. The strengths of the model should explicitly include the high resolution option. Thus, the picture is always displayed clearly and realistically. The second advantage of the model lies in the large angle horizontal field of view. According to the owners of the model, the sharpness of the image on the screen is also saved, if you look at it from the side. Parameter vertical view in this monitor is equal to 178 degrees. 
Highlighting the model provided by nice and the gamer will not interfere. Stand installed high altitude. If desired, you can adjust effortlessly. If you believe the opinion of the buyers, the display rotates quite freely. In this case, the swivel mechanism breaks down very rarely. To acquire the monitor Eizo Foris FG2421 user is able over 42 thousand rubles. Features EIZO FlexScan EV2736WFS3 
For home viewing of movies are good these monitors are Eizo. The review of the model should start with specifying the parameters. Screen size in this case equals to the 27 inch. If we talk about brightness, it should be noted that max the owner is able to put up to 320 CD. In turn, the parameter contrast is equal 1000:1. Horizontal viewing angle of this monitor is small. However, many buyers impressive interesting design of the device. In this case, the backlight does not Shine much, and my eyes are not tired. 
Built-in camera from the presented copy is missing. Also, manufacturers have not provided for the model column. However, all necessary cabling to connect the headset to the device. If we talk about the matrix, it is in this case a series of IPS. According to the documentation on the monitor response time is 5 MS. Dynamic scenes viewed in movies very interesting. It is also important to note that the pixel size is 0.2 mm. So the picture clarity is impressive. The coating in this case has a matte finish. 
If you believe the customer reviews, minor scratches on the body hardly noticeable. It is also important to mention the strength of the rack. Rotate the screen all day without risk to the monitor. If necessary, the backlight can always be disabled. To buy monitor 27" Eizo FlexScan EV2736WFS3 in the store the user is capable of over 37 thousand. Buyers Opinion about EV2450-WT 
These Eizo monitors feedback from buyers get a good. However, to view high-quality movies, they are not suitable. In this case, the screen size is only 25 inches. But the benefits of the model missing. First and foremost, it's high brightness setting. If you believe the opinion of the buyers, the picture looks colorful. 
The Resolution, in turn, equals 1920 for 1300 pixels. Matrix the model provides a series of IPS. Horizontal viewing angle of the monitor is small. The backlight in the default. It should also be noted that there are wide. In some cases, the rotating mechanism can break. Height to adjust the display allowed. The market monitor about 45 thousand. What is an interesting model Foris FS2434 
Quite often, these Eizo monitors are purchased for offices. In this case, the parameter of brightness is only 280 KD. However, it is important to note that the matrix used is very high quality. The response time exactly equal to 5 MS. The horizontal viewing angle is 150 degrees. Given the low cost model, it pleases many owners. In setting up this monitor is pretty simple. In this case, the TV tuner manufacturer is not provided. The model can be bought only 34 thousand. Description Foris FG2421-BK 
Many gamers this monitor is especially appreciated for the high parameter of the frequency sweep. Thus, failures during transmission of the signal occur very rarely. If you believe the opinion of the owners, was there a problem with color also do not occur. The device resolution is equal to 1920 1250 pixels. The display incline max user is able to set at 35 degrees. On the wall of this model can be placed quietly. 
It is Also important to mention its low weight, which is only 6.2 kg. the Maximum power this device consumes 49 watts. In economy mode the specified option does not exceed 0.3 watts. In the end it should be noted that speakers and the camera in the device do not exist. TV tuner design is not provided. Buy this monitor can be on the market for 41 thousand. The parameters of the model EV2450-BK 
The Parameters of this monitor is very impressive. In this case, the mesh resolution is 1800 x 1200 pixels. Device brightness is 340 CD. In turn, the vertical view angle is equal to 170 degrees. The matrix at the monitor a series of IPS, and the reaction time is 6 MS. However, the shortcomings of the model are still available. 
Due to the design of the rack, the inclination of the display is severely limited. In this case, up it is possible to raise only 30 degrees. While down the display virtually omitted. Thus, on the wall it would be inappropriate. In the store these Eizo monitors are sold at a price of 38 thousand. Consumer reviews on EV2455-BK 
Among the advantages of this model it should be noted a wide visibility field. In this case, deploy the display on max 35 degrees. Rack when you desire to raise is very simple. The pixel size is equal to as much as 2.6 mm. the parameter of brightness is exactly 260 KD. For illumination of the monitor unit LEDs are used. 
If you believe the opinion of the buyers, that they Shine not very bright. For the model fits well. A wide format of the device makes it comfortable to watch movies in high resolution. Horizontal scanning frequency of the model is exactly 80 kHz. To buy a monitor to date, over 42 thousand rubles. Features of the model EV2336WFS3-BK 
These Eizo monitors for games design are very interesting. It is also important to mention high-quality matte finish. The parameters for the specified monitor is not much different from the previous model. However, in this case the indicator brightness is 350 CD. The vertical view angle is equal to 180 degrees. Front is durable, and the maximum angle of inclination is as much as 35 degrees. In General, the housing is durable. If you believe the opinion of customers, then the matrix fails rarely. Are these gaming monitors Eizo in the area of 45 thousand. Monitor EV2336WFS3-GY: a description and customer reviews 
For comfortable viewing of movies these monitors Eizo have everything you need. The special effects on display look just great. This is largely due to the quality of the matrix, which is able to boast an excellent response. Colors in this case, the system can display more than 16 million Maximum resolution of the device is 1930 1200 young pickle. 
Horizontal viewing Angle, the model is not very large, but the brightness setting is equal to 360 KD. The height of the visible area of the monitor is 286 mm. the angle of the screen does not exceed 32 degrees. Built-in speakers in this case are. To buy monitor in stores at a price of 40 thousand rubles. ... 