Technology / Which is better: IPS or AMOLED? Compare people's opinions 
Supporters of the technology used in the manufacture of mobile devices was divided into fans of AMOLED and LCD supporters. Both types of screens based on different techniques of manufacture and the manufacturers stress the benefits only for their process. 
So what screen is better-IPS or AMOLED? Is there a significant difference between these technologies, and if so, what is it? LCD Technology 
LCD means LCD display. The colors in this are played very differently than AMOLED. In the display liquid crystal the light source is a backlight. The backlight can be multiple, what allows to save power, but it is used in large TVs. 
The White color has its own wavelength. It is a mixture of all other visible colors of the spectrum. Thus, the LCD backlight needs to create imaginary white light as efficiently as possible in order to obtain different colors in the LCD element. Most LCD displays has a blue led light that hits the phosphor and generates close to white light. 
The Real difficulty begins when the light is polarized and passes through the crystal. The LCD element can rotate it to different angles by changing the applied voltage. Next, the light passes through another polarizing filter, offset by 90° relative to the first. It dampens it, depending on the angle of rotation. Then the light passes through the RGB filter, creating a sub group and then, in pixels. 
All of this suggests that the LCD display controls the amount of light by blocking the backlight, and colored light for each pixel is generated. Like AMOLED, LCD displays can be active or passive matrix devices. AMOLED technology 
Hidden in the name of the key component in screens of this type – led (LED). Electronics enthusiasts knew about these bulbs before, but in the display pane, they drastically reduced and placed in the form of red, green, and blue clusters, which make up the individual pixel is capable of white and other colors. The arrangement of these subpixels may slightly affect the characteristics of the displays. 
The Letter O means organic. There are a number of thin organic films placed between the wires of the led emitting light when current is applied. 
And finally, part of the AM in AMOLED stands for “active matrix" in contrast to passive technology. This shows how to control each led OLED. For control over individual pixel in a passive matrix used, the integrated circuit controlling the supply voltage to the required column or row. It's slow and not very accurate. The active matrix system, each led have a TFT transistor and a capacitor. When activated row and column to access the pixel capacitor retains its charge between refresh cycles. This allows you to quickly and accurately control it. 
Another term which can be met – Super AMOLED, marketing company name Samsung display combined with a capacitive touch screen. Typically, such a screen is performed in a separate layer on the outer side of the display. Such a Union makes the display thinner. Super AMOLED vs LCD 
Such a deep difference in the method of operation of the display has a big impact on user experience. Color scheme most often referred to when comparing these technologies. It provides a greater range of color than LCD, resulting in more vivid images. 
OLED displays have additional saturation of green and blue, the most powerful colors in the subpixels. Some believe that this extra saturation produces unnatural colors. LCD displays usually have a tendency of overcompensating red tones with a more muted green. Despite the fact that they do not have a wide enough range, they create an image very closely matches the standard profile, the color gamut for photo and video. 
Closer examination of smartphone displays shows that the colors can vary quite significantly even in displays of the same type. For example, despite the fact that Priv BlackBerry and Galaxy Note 5 uses AMOLED display the same manufacturer, they have a completely different gamma profiles. This may be partly explained by the presence of multiple profiles, and various calibration image producer. 
Accuracy – another significant difference, especially when it comes about the white color. Testing some of the best Android smartphones has shown that the OLED displays give very accurate results, while LCDs have a slight blue tint. This is not surprising, given that LCD displays work on the filtered blue light. 
The Lack of a backlight and filter layers also speaks in favor of OLED. LCD displays often miss the extra light and have a low contrast since the backlight is not turned off even if the pixels should be black in color, while the OLED can simply turn off their pixels. The filter layer of the LCD blocks part of the light, and the large thickness means that the viewing angles are less compared to OLED. 
The Disadvantage of AMOLED is that different LEDs have different lifetime and this means that the individual RBG components eventually degrade at different rates. The color balance of the OLED display can be slightly displaced, and led backlight LCD means that the color balance more stable. Handling 
One of the main advantages of OLED screens is their high controllability at the level of each pixel. This element can be turned off, allowing you to achieve the depth of black and high contrast ratio. Management of radiation at the level of a single pixel is the result of energy savings, and the lack of additional layers over the led means that the surface achieves maximum light. The images become brighter and improved viewing angle. A Subtlety and flexibility 
Proponents of AMOLED note the smaller thickness of the screen depend on the size of the device and its weight. This is due to the lack of a backlight. Although for many this option may seem inconsequential, it exerts influence on another important indicator-the angle which directly depends on the thickness of the display. 
The Use of LEDs means that LED krany extremely thin, which is ideal for portable devices. The lack of a strong backlight and a breakthrough in the production of substrates allowed us to create the first generation of flexible displays, very promising for the creation of new form factors. Contrast 
One of the main parameters, which will help to understand what technology the screen is better-IPS or AMOLED, is the contrast. The advantage of led technology – a huge contrast, what users love this technology. When people first time see such a colorful display, very surprised. This is the “wow effect" of the so revered by marketers. Deep black 
The Following option which will help to decide which screen is better-IPS or Super AMOLED, – is the ability to convey black. Due to the fact that led screens that glow on their own, users give them an indisputable advantage. Involves only the pixels needed in the image, not the entire screen like IPS. Contrast-the ratio of luminance of light and dark areas of the screen, therefore, the theoretical contrast ratio organic light-emitting diodes are endless, as the glow is absent. But in reality this is not the case, through the areas of black is reflected light. The difference in contrast – 20-fold (30000:1 vs 1500:1). Power Consumption 
Among the indicators to decide which is better, IPS or AMOLED, users call the efficiency of the screen. In LED-technology it is achieved by illumination of the individual subpixels. On dark scenes the screen spends little energy, but more light. Therefore, the power consumption of the display depends on the mode of its use. Performance 
Response Time also influences the opinion of consumers, which display is better IPS or AMOLED. Recent technology it is less, which in theory should mean slightly faster change of images. In reality, higher response time IPS is almost imperceptible. And the Samsung Galaxy S4 appeared another problem – rapid change of image causes a noticeable visual effect. Color 
Another question that allows you to choose AMOLED or IPS-what is a better color? IPS displays provide an image without distorting colors. The color is bright when it should be. Natural gamma on the led displays is achieved by software settings. As white 
Real white color on the LED displays, as users say, elusive. LCD also gives the phantom white color emitted by the phosphor. The result is shades of blue, yellow and pink instead of white. In this case, can help the individual setting of the image. 