OldTwitter What is Pool ICO Platform? 
Poolico-platform.com is a platform for uniting investors into pools, for participation in ICO projects, on the most favorable terms at the early stages of the initial offer. 
The essence of our project is that we unite private investors in the pool, to participate in a closed primary offer of TON tokens. Each investor has the opportunity to invest his share through our platform. By registering and using your personal office, everyone can refill bitcoins or ether and buy the share in the pool. The funds are daily sent to the escrow account in US dollars, since participation in the primary offer of TON tokens is impossible by the crypto -currency. Your share is fixed in US dollars according to the average rate of bitcoin or ether at the time of receipt of funds. 
At the end of the fund-raising, all raised funds will be used to purchase the TON tokens at the price set at the time of purchase. After that, all tokens will be distributed among participants of our platform in proportion to their contributions in US dollars. 
All funds are transferred to the escrow account on a daily basis, and in case of impossibility to participate in the TON initial offer, all funds will be returned to their investors. But we plan to participate in the next round of sales, which, according to our data, still going to be. What are the Advantages of TON? 
Thanks to integration into this system, millions of people will have free access to the crypto currency. Among the main advantages of TON is: 
• the work through mobile devices: you don’t have to carry large amounts of money with you, as many goods and services can be paid using crypto currency; 
• a high level of security: TON will ensure the safe storage of financial resources of each person in the detachment, since the cipher will be known only to the owner of the wallet ; 
• simplicity of purchasing TON coins. 
The Telegram messenger can become an excellent launching pad for the initial implementation of the project, as it is now connected by a large number of public chats, groups and channels with a multi-million base of subscribers. And it is the ready audience for the acquisition of digital content and physical goods. After 2021, it is planned to launch its own element called Telegram. 
We aren’t employees of Telegram and don’t conduct a primary sale (ICO) on behalf of Telegram and its founders. Our platform is a pad designed to pool investors into pools for the purpose of participating in ICO projects that can bring good profit to each investor on the most favorable terms at the earliest stages of the initial offer. Timeframe of Fundraise 
Fundraising will start on March 1, 2018. An approximate end date is April 1, 2018 (can be extended). 
Soft cap (it is the minimum amount of funds that must be collected to run the project) is $20 000 000. 
The project’s founders are fully responsible for the use of the received funds. As part of the implementation and development of the project, these responsibilities will be transferred to a non-profit organization – the TON Foundation. 
Each investment made in the crypto currency is transferred daily to the escrow account. And if until the end of the initial offer the softcap will not be assembled, we organize a refund of funds to all investors. 
TON Pool ICO project official website poolico-platform.com 
Disclaimer. This article is paid and provided by a third-party source and should not be viewed as an endorsement by CoinIdol. Readers should do their own research before investing funds in any company. CoinIdol shall not be responsible or liable, directly or indirectly, for any damage or loss caused or alleged to be caused by or in connection with the use of or reliance on any such content, goods or services mentioned in this article. 