
GYAGENDA KABUUBI 
The Ugandan and Rwandan presidents have finally met amid escalating tensions between the two neighbouring countries. 
Rwanda’s Paul Kagame flew in on Sunday morning for closed door talks with his Ugandan counterpart Yoweri Museveni at State House Entebbe. 
Kagame’s visit came a week after Museveni made a last minute cancellation of his trip to Rwanda to attend the African Union Extraordinary Summit on the African Continental Free Trade Area. Museveni sent Foreign Affairs minister Sam Kutesa. 
Kagame himself had a month back skipped the East African Community (EAC) heads of state summit that was held in Kampala to discuss infrastructure and health funding. 
This was a culmination of months of a silent diplomatic row that saw the Rwandan Foreign Affairs minister Louise Mushikiwabo attack the Ugandan government for the arrest of Rwandan nationals living in Uganda. 
Some 45 Rwandans are currently on remand at Mbarara prison over terrorism related charges. 
Addressing a joint press conference after their nearly four hours meeting at Entebbe, Museveni said, there are major issues between the two countries. 
“There’s no fundamental conflict between Rwanda and Uganda, we don’t even have a border problem like that of Kenya because with Kenya, we have issues over Migingo island which we haven’t resolved, with Tanzania, we have problems over the latitude, they say the border must be a straight line…and with DRC, we have issues over the ownership of Rukwanzi island…” Museveni said. 
“With Rwanda, there is nothing, no issue really, in my opinion, I don’t see it,” Museveni said. Kagame too denied that there were issues. 
“There are so many issues that have been reported out of context, we have agreed to…as was stated that the concerned institutions on both sides, working together can get any matter that has been raised, and I think we can get the right information,” Kagame said. 
He also said that both sides need to base on facts before taking any decision. 
Museveni said in their meeting, they discussed the issues relating to harassment of both countries citizens and agreed close cooperation. Related Posts 