Yakani urges IGAD to lobby 'compromises' for South Sudan peace File photo: Edmund Yakani 
A leading South Sudanese civil society organization has urged the IGAD Council of Ministers to focus on strategies of lobbying significant compromises for peace in South Sudan. 
The Intergovernmental Authority Development (IGAD) Council of Ministers are scheduled to meet tomorrow in Addis Ababa to evaluate the recent South Sudan’s peace talks and propose a way forward. 
Edmund Yakani, executive director of the non-profit Community Empowerment for Progress Organization (CEPO), said in a statement extended to Radio Tamazuj the regional body should come up with ideas for how to encourage compromises for peace between the South Sudan warring. 
Yakani further said the IGAD Council of Ministers should strongly urge the South Sudan warring parties to effectively implement the ceasefire deal signed in December last year. 
“IGAD should stress timely implementation of Article 9 of Cessation of Hostilities Agreement by all parties. IGAD should further review the methodology of the revitalization process since it much focuses on conflict management than conflict resolution or transformation,” Yakani said. 
IGAD Council of Ministers, according to CEPO, should openly call upon South Sudan neighbors and other African countries that have vested interest in South Sudan to make compromises for the sake of peace. 
It pointed out that the truce violation in various parts of the country shows lack of political will to implement any peaceful resolution to the current civil war in South Sudan. 
“Therefore, IGAD Council of Ministers should also invest efforts on resolving hostile relationship among the politicians of the warring parties,” the civil society group said. 
CEPO said it expects that the IGAD Council of Ministers meeting tomorrow will come out with key practical decisions on improving the approach for the revitalization process. 
The leading civil society group called upon the IGAD Council of Ministers to take proactive decisions for lobbying compromises for peace by the warring parties of South Sudan before the next round of talks. Share this