GENEVA - 25 Mar 2018 UN extends mandate of its human rights body in South Sudan Wide view of a press conference by two Commissioners of a three-member team from the UN Commission on Human Rights, at the end of their South Sudan trip on 15 September 2016. UNMISS/Isaac Billy 
The United Nations on Friday extended the mandate of the UN Human Rights Council in South Sudan by a period of one year. 
Established in 2016, the Commission's mandate is to determine and report the facts and circumstances of, collect and preserve evidence of, and clarify responsibility for alleged gross violations and abuses of human rights and related crimes, including sexual and gender-based violence and ethnic violence, with a view to ending impunity and providing accountability in South Sudan. 
In a resolution adopted without a vote, the Council decided to extend the mandate of the Commission on Human Rights in South Sudan for a period of one year, and it requested the Commission to present an oral update at the Council’s thirty-ninth session, and to present a comprehensive written report at the Council’s fortieth session. 
According to the statement, the international community was urged to support the existing peace processes, including the national dialogue, which had been a vital peace process initiated by President Kiir. 
South Sudan government called upon the Intergovernmental Authority on Development, the Troika and the international community not to pursue sanctions but to complement the government’s efforts toward achieving a sustainable peace. 
Separately, South Sudanese rights entity has welcomed the renewal of the UN commission’s mandate. 
CPJ’s executive director, Tito Anthony said in a statement extended to Radio Tamazuj that the move is positive and in the interest of the people of South Sudan. 
“The new mandate will help the commission to continue it work and accomplish the undone task and ensure that the hybrid court is established as per the [August 2015 peace] agreement,” said Tito. 
He urged the government of South Sudan to cooperate with the commission to smoothly carry out its work. Share this