Comfort Brand Renaissance Results In Significant Growth Brand transformation continues to build pipeline with 80 percent new construction 
ROCKVILLE, Md. --Choice Hotels International, Inc. (NYSE: CHH), one of the world's largest hotel companies, has continued to transform the Comfort brand through bold moves and substantial investment. The Comfort brand plans to again open more than one hotel per week in 2018 with a pipeline of nearly 300 properties, 80 percent of which are new construction. From 2013 through 2019, Choice, along with its franchisees, will have invested $2.5 billion in its flagship brand driven by the Move to Modern initiative, a system-wide update to public spaces and guest rooms. 
"The Comfort brand has undergone a renaissance," said Anne Smith, vice president, brand management and design, Choice Hotels. "With over 1,800 properties across North America, we're everywhere guests want to travel, whether on leisure or business, and we look forward to bringing the brand to even more major markets in 2018. Our decision to commit to improving the Comfort brand was the right one as the transformation has fortified the brand's position in the upper midscale segment and led to one of the largest pipelines in its history." 
Choice plans to bring the Comfort brand to several primary markets in 2018, including Austin, Texas; Asheville, N.C.; Columbus, Ohio; Dallas; Denver; Nashville, Tenn.; New York; Oklahoma City; Philadelphia; and San Diego. The recent Comfort hotel openings are located across the country, and include a mix of new construction and conversion projects: Comfort Inn & Suites in Oklahoma City, Okla. - 87 guest rooms Comfort Inn & Suites in Humble, Texas - 61 guest rooms Comfort Inn & Suites in Niagara Falls, N.Y. - 82 guest rooms Comfort Inn in College Park, GA - 127 guest rooms Comfort Inn in Raleigh, N.C. - 128 guest rooms 
"The Comfort brand is a proven leader in the upper midscale segment and there is continued runway for growth throughout the country," said Brian Quinn, head of development, new construction brands, Choice Hotels. "Developer interest in the Comfort brand remains strong due to the brand's prototype, value proposition, and strong return on investment." 
For more information on Comfort Hotels development opportunities, please visit https://choicehotelsdevelopment.com/comfort/ . About Choice Hotels 
Choice Hotels International, Inc. (NYSE: CHH ) is one of the world's largest hotel companies. With over 6,500 hotels franchised in more than 40 countries and territories, Choice Hotels International represents more than 500,000 rooms around the globe. As of September 30, 2017, over 800 hotels were in our development pipeline. Our company's Ascend Hotel Collection®, Cambria® Hotels, Comfort Inn®, Comfort Suites®, Sleep Inn®, Quality®, Clarion®, MainStay Suites®, WoodSpring Suites®, Suburban Extended Stay Hotel®, Econo Lodge®, Rodeway Inn®, and Vacation Rentals by Choice Hotels® brands provide a spectrum of lodging choices to meet guests' needs. With more than 35 million members, our Choice Privileges® rewards program enhances every trip a guest takes, with benefits ranging from instant, every day rewards to exceptional experiences, starting right when they join. All hotels and vacation rentals are independently owned and operated. Visit us at www.choicehotels.com for more information. 