Get to know your fellow fans Get to know your fellow fans 25th March 2018 Stags fans The latest fan to be featured in ‘Get to know your fellow fans’ is Trevor Longman . Trev Longman 
Trev is a familiar face at AFC Totton games. He is a local lad from Hounsdown with a number of friends in and around the club, including a previously ‘featured’ Stags fan Adrian Hotson. 
Trev describes himself as a bit of a new boy who has been a regular since the FA vase final in 2007. He used to follow Totton’s results in the paper when they used to print them in the Stop Press at the bottom of the sports echo as The Pink was called back in the day. He never really went to watch as he worked most weekends and also used to go to white hart lane regular in those days. It wasn’t until the vase final that he saw the light and began his love affair with non league football or more particularly AFC Totton. 
Trev says ‘My first game would probably have been V Windsor and Eton the the FA cup back in the 1982 but that was about it until that famous day in 2007.’ 
Trev went on to tell us ‘There are many memorable games, but one of the most memorable game for me was away to Oxford City. Not the play off final, but a league game which finished 2 – 2. It was at the time when long throw in’s were all the rage. A rule had been brought in whereby if a towel was to be used, it had to be agreed by either teams – or something like that. Well, Oxford decided that this didn’t apply to them. They had a towel on the rail both sides and were using it every time they had an attacking throw in. They scored from one of these throw in’s which up seemed to rattle my cage. I promptly walked round the other side of the ground, waited until the ball was up the other end of the pitch and nobody was looking my way, then grabbed the towel and threw it over the fence into the adjoining field. The funniest bit was watching the guy desperately hunting for the towel the next time they had a throw in. After half time, another appeared, which Big Adam (another AFC Totton fan) duly grabbed and chucked at their bench !!! happy days when we equalised in the last few minutes to grab the draw.’ 
Trev says he loves the friendliness of the club and the fact we get decent sized crowds and a good atmosphere in the bar before and after the game. Trev went on to say ‘Obviously the facilities make it a nice place to come, but the people are what make it. Non league football, where you are in the bar with the players management etc. None of the premier league prima donnas with weird haircuts, even dafter tattoos and large expensive headphones for me thank you very much !’ 
Trev was keen to mention Andy Straker, he said. ‘He stood up to be counted when the vultures were circling, for which I for one will be eternally grateful. Otherwise I may now be having to spend Saturdays shopping !! had some great times with Andy at the bar both home and away!’ 
Trev said that he believes the club is most certainly heading in the right direction and gathering momentum. He went on to say ‘We all like a good moan when things are too great, like last Saturday against Bristol Manor Farm when we were moaning like heck and then 10 minutes later we are 3 – 1 up!’ 
‘It’s early days, but I think with the people we have in place, we can gain promotion in the next 2 or 3 seasons and then become a top half premier side. Then where ? National South is achievable in the future in my opinion.’ 
I agree with that one Trev! Please share: 