Home / economy / Putin’s election increased the dollar Putin’s election increased the dollar 12 mins ago economy 0 Views 
The election of President Putin for a fourth term increased the dollar. 
From the second half of day the rouble came under pressure with total sales of emerging market currencies against the dollar. By the end of the day, the U.S. currency was located in a green area to all major EM currencies, although the dollar index was trading in the red. The ruble was carrying the maximum loss among other currency pairs that usually indicates a strengthening of geopolitical tensions against the Russian Federation. In anticipation of large payments to the weakening of the ruble will be used by exporters to sell foreign currency revenue. 
Global stock market today, there is a decrease associated with the increased fears of tightening monetary policy in the United States. Political risks have gone by the wayside, and an unexpected increase in industrial production in the United States reinforced expectations that rapid economic growth will force the fed to actively raise rates. In anticipation of the next FOMC meeting, the ruble falls against the Euro and the dollar, falling after the price of oil. He came close to the level of 58 rubles./ See also: WSJ: the U.S. government does not conduct preparation meetings trump and Putin 
Expectations of a US rate hike will intensify with the approach of the FOMC meeting, so we expect the gradual strengthening of the dollar on commodity contracts and currencies of developing countries until the middle of the week. 
Predictable election results, which will increase the period of stay of Putin in the Kremlin to 24 years, hardly a short-term impact on the currency market: ruble under pressure of expectations for upcoming fed meeting, which again will increase the interest rate, and the fact that the CBR rate is expected to decrease by 0.25 points, said the head of financial markets, the Ural Bank for reconstruction and development Vladimir Zotov. 
But in the long term, 6 years Putin may be bad news for the ruble, says the head of analysis and strategy in emerging markets Credit Agricole Sebastian Barbe. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share