Home / Weapons / Missile complex “Frontier” no longer threatens US. Why? Missile complex “Frontier” no longer threatens US. Why? 26 mins ago Weapons 0 Views Why frozen the development of mobile strategic missile system RS-26 “Boundary”? 

Illustration: Mil.ru 

According to a source in the Russian defense-industrial complex of the State armament program for the period from 2018 to 2027 (LG-2027) deleted mobile strategic missile system RS-26 “Frontier”, while it has recently announced the President of Russia Vladimir Putin hypersonic strategic missile complex “Avangard” silo-based. According to the source, to implement both programmes lacked funding. So whether it’s here or may be hiding other reasons? 
RS-26 “Frontier” is one of the two main claims of the United States in the framework of the Treaty on the elimination of INF 
Mobile strategic missile system RS-26 “Boundary” with a light Intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) in recent years was seen as one of the most interesting and promising projects developed in the interests of the strategic Missile forces (RVSN) of Russia, along with a heavy liquid ICBM “Sarmat” silo-based. In contrast to the “Sarmatian”, “Boundary” is actually ready for production (until 2015 made 5 starts, 4 of them successful), and in recent years repeatedly referred to the imminent adoption of missiles into service. 

Michael — Nuclear silo 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2395165/2.html” rel=”nofollow”>Missile RS-28 “Sarmat” 
However, it is clearly politics intervened (but more probably for political purposes the project was created). The fact that the main feature of the RS-26 is its versatility — the rocket can actually carry out both functions of medium-range missiles (maximum range of 1,000 km to 5,500 km), having a minimum launch range of about 2000 km, and the functions of the MDBs. The maximum range of a missile “Boundary” is estimated to be 6000-6500 km, which corresponds to the criteria of Intercontinental ballistic missiles (over 5,500 km). In fact, the rocket meets the criteria of the Treaty on the elimination of intermediate-range and shorter-range (where the negotiated maximum launch range), but USA is not the first heard of the allegations about inconsistencies missiles the letter of the contract. It was about that flight to maximum range is possible only with light weapons load, and in fact the rocket has been made specially for the hit targets at medium range. It is likely that there is a grain of truth, so as to hurry the missile at the strategic missile forces of Russia did not — and now the project is not frozen. See also: Preparing for the zombie Apocalypse, a resident of Izhevsk has sentenced 
It is likely that information about the freezing of the projects RS-26 “Boundary” and “Barguzin” (to a lesser extent) until 2027 is a kind of curtsy Moscow to Washington before negotiations to extend the Treaty on the reduction of strategic offensive arms SNV-3. 
It is likely that a cruise missile called 9M729 also developed for this purpose and really is a medium-range missile (the official information about the specifications is not, as information about the deployment of significant amounts of these weapons). It is important that all these weapons is a high degree of readiness and the start of serial production is not a big problem, if the need arises. In fact, it is now also extremely important and the negotiations over the INF Treaty, which has accumulated a lot of issues that brought this important document to the brink of ruin. 
And finally, the proverbial question of the US withdrawal from the Treaty on the limitation of anti-ballistic missile systems also creates stability and requires at least some settlement. 
“Avant-garde” and more advanced strategic weapons strengthened the position of Russia in the negotiations See also: Complex morning exercises, which will charge you with vivacity 
On the one hand, the abandonment of production of the RS-26 “Frontier” might seem a concession, weakening the position of Russia at negotiations with the United States. In fact, this step varies a little, considering a number of more original and breakthrough projects, which was recently officially announced. 
The inclusion of “Avant-garde” in the LG-2027 speaks about enough high degree of readiness of the product. It is known that testing a hypersonic glide warhead (glider) complex was performed using the aging silo liquid ICBM UR-100N utth. Real media for hypersonic gliders, capable of conducting prolonged controlled flight at speeds of around Mach 20 (20 times the speed of sound) in the atmosphere, there will be a new heavy ICBM “Sarmat”, the first throwing test which passed at the end of 2017. This missile is also included in the LG 2027. 

Illustration: Nationalinterest.org 
https://regnum.ru/pictures/2395165/3.html” rel=”nofollow”>a Hypersonic glider 
In combination with the concept of cruise missiles of unlimited range with a nuclear power plant (whether carried out tests with a working reactor, is unclear) have already implemented aircraft hypersonic aeroballistic rocket “Dagger” on the basis of a rocket complex “Iskander-M”, torpedo with a nuclear power plant (the degree of readiness unclear) Russia’s position becomes very strong, and Moscow can afford to make a friendly gesture in the form of frost on one of his projects. Would such a move to real results, only time will tell. Any news can bring the meeting of the President of Russia Vladimir Putin and U.S. President Donald trump , which recently stated. 

Details: https://regnum.ru/news/2395165.html?utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fzen.yandex.com” rel=”nofollow”>https://regnum.ru/news/2395165.html?utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fzen.yandex.com Any use of materials is allowed only with a hyperlink to https://regnum.ru” rel=”nofollow”>IA REGNUM. 
© 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share