24 March 2018, 20:17 An armed militant killed in Dagestan 
In Dagestan, in the course of a counterterrorist operation (CTO) in the Botlikh District, law enforcers killed a militant from the terrorist organization "Islamic State" (IS) banned in Russia. 
Today, the CTO legal regime has been introduced in the village of Andi, reported the headquarters of the National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC). 
Law enforcers cordoned off a house, in which the militant was hiding. The man was killed after he had refused to lay down his arms. 
"According to the operative information, he was identified as Yunus Khabibov, a wanted suspect, who swore allegiance to the IS and who carried out its tasks as the leader of a militants grouping, which was active in the mountainous woodland," reported a source from the NAC as quoted by the RIA "Novosti". 
No civilians or law enforcers were injured. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   All news; Incidents; Society; Crime; North-Caucasian Federal District; Dagestan All news   "Caucasian Knot"   March 25, 2018 18:25 
The Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) has published a video from the venue of   conducted in   Dagestan, in which one man was killed. March 25, 2018 16:50 
Circassian activists from Kabardino-Balkaria and other Russian regions have raised money for treatment of Dina Tamukh, a Syrian resident, in Russia, but her transportation became impossible due to the deterioration of her health condition. March 25, 2018 15:34 
The counterterrorist operation (CTO) regime in the village of Andi, Botlikh District of Dagestan, where a militant was killed on March 24, has been cancelled, the Russian National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) has stated. March 25, 2018 14:52 
Giorgi Mikeladze, detained within the case of the "Leogrand" Hotel, has stated that he had been unreasonably persecuted. According to his advocate, Mikeladze had no relation to the boiler room, where the fire broke out and killed 11 persons. TOPICS OF THE DAY