24 March 2018, 16:40 Rights defenders question law enforcers' version of special operation in Chechnya 
It is very difficult to verify whether four natives of Ingushetia and Dagestan killed in Chechens were militants. The former cases of disinformation question the version, stated members of the Human Rights Centre (HRC) "Memorial". 
The "Caucasian Knot" has reported that on March 20, in the Achkhoi-Martan District, in a forest close to the village of Bamut located near the border with Ingushetia, four persons were killed in an armed clash with law enforcers . The deceased suspects are identified . 
"The indication of the proximity to Ingushetia and the fact that the militants themselves were Ingush and Dagestani natives can be explained by a clear desire of the Chechen authorities. However, we cannot say if that was the case," noted Alexander Cherkasov, a member of the board for the HRC "Memorial". 
He also mentioned the cases when killed "militants" had been detained, "later dressed in camouflage uniform and armed and killed somewhere." 
Vladimir Malykhin, a member of the "Hot Spots" project initiated by the HRC "Memorial", mentioned another case when a killed suspected militant turned out to be a kidnapped resident of Dagestan. 
The rights defender also added that relatives of two disappeared young men had appealed to the HRC "Memorial". 
"Eyewitnesses reported that they had been detained by law enforcers in Dagestan. They said they were going to Ingushetia to get a job, but there was no news about them so far," added Vladimir Malykhin. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   Author: Tatyana Gantimurova, Gor Alexanyan ; Source: CK correspondents e21f6204 All news; Politics; Incidents; Society; Conflicts; Crime; North-Caucasian Federal District; Ingushetia; Chechnya; Dagestan All news   "Caucasian Knot"   March 25, 2018 18:25 
The Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) has published a video from the venue of   conducted in   Dagestan, in which one man was killed. March 25, 2018 16:50 
Circassian activists from Kabardino-Balkaria and other Russian regions have raised money for treatment of Dina Tamukh, a Syrian resident, in Russia, but her transportation became impossible due to the deterioration of her health condition. March 25, 2018 15:34 
The counterterrorist operation (CTO) regime in the village of Andi, Botlikh District of Dagestan, where a militant was killed on March 24, has been cancelled, the Russian National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) has stated. March 25, 2018 14:52 
Giorgi Mikeladze, detained within the case of the "Leogrand" Hotel, has stated that he had been unreasonably persecuted. According to his advocate, Mikeladze had no relation to the boiler room, where the fire broke out and killed 11 persons. TOPICS OF THE DAY