Dutch govt to invest EUR 130 mln into Brainport Eindhoven Monday 19 March 2018 | 11:24 CET | News 
The Dutch government will be investing EUR 130 million into developing Brainport Eindhoven, a regional business part for companies and researchers. The money will come from the funds destined for the country’s regions. It will be used to help make the Eindhoven region attractive for multinationals and startups, so that they can set up offices and headquarters there. The announcement was made by ministers Carola Schouten of Agriculture, Nature and Food Quality, Kasja Ollongren of Interior and Kingdom Relations and Mona Keijzer of Economic Affairs, at the Technical University of Eindhoven’s Innovation Space. 
The Dutch government sees Brainport Eindhoven as an core economic area of ​​national significance. With a concentration of knowledge-intensive manufacturing companies, the region of Eindhoven is driving innovation in the Dutch high-tech sector. Spending a total of EUR 2 billion, the region has the highest private expenditure on R&D (Technisch Weekblad). It had the highest regional economic growth in the Netherlands last year at 4.9 percent (ING). The city of Eindhoven itself has the highest patent density in the world, with 22.6 patents per 10,000 inhabitants (OECD). 
The projects to be carried out will focus on attracting, training and retaining technical talent at all levels of education and promoting innovations with a social impact. They will also seek to strengthen cultural, social and sports facilities and increase the quality of life in the city and region for the existing population. The region itself will invest EUR 240 million; if that contribution is not achieved, the contribution from the central government will decrease proportionally. Part of the money will go into photonics and will be used to set up a National Masterplan for Photonics. Overijssel and Gelderland are also involved in this project. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.