Home / policy / The appeal of Vladimir Putin to the Russians after the elections The appeal of Vladimir Putin to the Russians after the elections 25 mins ago policy 0 Views 
Dear citizens of Russia! Dear friends! 
Today, the Central election Commission announced the final results of the elections of the President of Russia. In them took part more than 67% of voters, more than 73 million citizens. For the incumbent head of state voted by over 56 million people, more than 76% of voters. This is the highest level of support in the history of our country. 
March 18, immediately after the announcement of the first results, I spoke at the rally at the Manege square and its campaign. Thanked his supporters, all those who participated in the elections. This night it was timely and necessary. 
However, given the massive and unprecedented support you provided me, I believe that only words of gratitude, spoken in the center of Moscow, is not enough. I feel an inner need to speak directly to you, to those who supported my candidacy across the country, to all citizens of Russia. 

I believe that such a powerful civic activity, your liability consolidation is extremely important. Especially in the current environment, in a difficult internal and external challenges that we face. 
Know well about our problems. You, the citizens of Russia, rightly talk about the decline in revenues, the deficiencies in health, housing and other fields. See your high trust above all hope for change for the better. I hope that this assessment, related to the work that has been done. With those positive results that we have achieved together in previous years. See also: Poroshenko Lagarde confirmed the fight against corruption 
But this, of course is not enough. We need a real breakthrough! And your active participation in the election, your support, see the willingness to work for such changes. 
Aware of their enormous responsibility to the citizens of Russia, the country! All I said in the election campaign, must be done. 
Of course, I want to those problems that put the citizens were resolved as quickly as possible. We will strive towards this! But it would be absolutely irresponsible to promise to do it all immediately, right now, to change everything overnight. It would be pretty ostentatious gesture in a short-term immediate effect and we need a consistent, profound changes, well thought out steps that will make a sustainable and positive effect today and in the future. 
We will create new jobs and to increase the efficiency of our economy, boost real incomes and reduce poverty. To develop the infrastructure and the social sphere: education, health care, tackle environmental and housing problems, to update, to improve our cities and towns. And all this is based on a powerful technological breakthrough, which we have to make. 
About these tasks, I said in the message. In fact it is clear, specific, detailed plan for our common action. I am sure that he is realistic, correct and justified. I want to emphasize: all future decisions, even the most complex, will be dictated by the need to overcome still existing in some areas lag to ensure the dynamic development of the country and new quality of life of people, give a response to the historic challenges we face. See also: Who is lying to us? 
And most importantly, any of these decisions ultimately will be made solely in the interests of our country, our citizens, for our children and future generations. We will act openly, to discuss with people all our key decisions to explain why do so, and not otherwise, what purpose want to reach. 
I stress that our development agenda is consolidating in nature, national in scope, and should unite all. I would like to appeal to all public political forces of the country. 
Understand that the logic of political competition is that the current government is criticized: the left and right, always! Yes, criticism, debate, discussion vitally important. But they should not be irresponsible populism. The main point of reference for everyone, especially today, should serve national interests and the welfare of the people. This is the basis for our consolidation and collaboration. 
I appeal to those citizens who voted for other candidates. With respect to your position, your choice. Political preferences should not divide us! We are all patriots of their country. We have one common concern – the fate of Russia, its prosperity. Our unity, responsibility, a shared understanding of the goals, aspirations of millions of people we need to bring to the development of Russia, into a powerful movement forward. 
Thanks again for the support and trust. I’m sure together we will achieve success.  