Home / policy / The trade Union of journalists called on the OSCE to boycott the deputies domogalla Slutsky The trade Union of journalists called on the OSCE to boycott the deputies domogalla Slutsky 25 mins ago policy 0 Views 
Russian independent trade Union of journalists and media workers appealed to the parliamentary Assembly of the OSCE and foreign colleagues to cease cooperation with the head of the Duma Committee on international Affairs Leonid Slutsky, who is accused of sexual harassment. 
In an open letter to the Union indicated that at the beginning of March, several journalists said about inappropriate and sexist behaviour Slutsky. It is noted that the Deputy from LDPR initially denied accusations of harassment, but then one of the journalists has provided a transcript of the audio interview in his office, during which Slutsky had done to her a few indecent proposals, and touched the pubic area. After that, the MP said that this pre-election provocation – the same conclusion reached by many of his colleagues, including the speaker of the state Duma Vyacheslav Volodin, who said that journalists who fear harassment, you should change jobs. 
March 21 the state Duma Commission on Deputy ethics has not found in actions of the Deputy Slutsky any violations. After the meeting, the Chairman of the Commission, Otari Arshba, answering the question, is it normal, from his point of view, to touch journalists for Bush replied, “I don’t know,” the letter reads. See also: Doctors called sudden cause of snoring 
– The Deputy from Tatarstan called “servants” journalists boycotting the Duma because of Slutsky 
In response to the lack of an adequate response of the MPs have more than 15 publications have announced full or partial boycott of the Duma, Slutsky and deputies within the Committee on ethics of withdrawing their correspondents of the state Duma. After that the speaker Volodin said that all of these publications withdrawn accreditation to work in the lower house of Parliament. 
“We call on foreign publications, the journalistic community and the trade unions to boycott the deputies and the leadership of the state Duma, asking them questions just the attitude to sexual harassment, and the impunity of Mr Slutsky. We urge the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly to condemn the actions of the Deputy Slutsky and parliamentarians from the Committee on ethics, urging them to apologize for violation of privacy and the justification of harassment,”– said in the appeal of the Union. See also: Volodin called reasonable question about investing the Russian money into the US economy 
Also the authors of the appeal ask the Secretariat of the parliamentary Assembly and all members of national delegations to suspend any interaction with the Deputy Slutsky. 
Recall abuse by Slutsky in late February – early March, said the Deputy chief editor of the TV channel RTVI Ekaterina Kotrikadze, producer of TV channel “Rain” Darya Zhuk and the correspondent of Russian service of BBC Farida Rustamova. At the same time Rustamova has done on tape with the consent of the Slutsky audio recording of their conversation. But the state Duma Commission on ethics is considering the case of Slutsky, noted that “have no way to evaluate these or other video audio documents”. 
Misconduct Slutsky told the official representative of Russian foreign Ministry Maria Zakharova. On the eve of homosexual harassment was accused of being the head of LDPR Vladimir Zhirinovsky. About the misconduct of a multiple of the presidential candidate of the Russian Federation, told the journalist of TV channel “Real time” Renat Davletgildeev. 
 