Home / economy / Ukraine has driven Gazprom in the pipe Ukraine has driven Gazprom in the pipe 10 mins ago economy 1 Views 
“Gazprom” will not be able to do without transit through Ukraine’s territory after 2019, despite the fact that the timing of scheduled commissioning of the gas pipeline “Nord stream-2”. As writes the edition “Kommersant”, this time won’t be ready for the ground infrastructure in the EU. More specifically, the pipeline Eugal, analogue line Opal, which should be a continuation of the “Nord stream-2” in Germany, will be built only by the end of 2020. This was announced by the publication in the company Gascade, which owns a share of 50.5% in the project. 
2 Nord Stream with capacity of 55 billion cubic meters of gas per year is planned to be launched in the end of 2019, and, as repeatedly stated by “Gazprom”, the implementation is progressing according to plan. However, if by this time will be built only the first line Eugal, the Russian company will be able to pump through the pipeline 34 billion cubic meters of gas. 
In “Gazprom” this information does not comment. But if the situation is so, this amount will not be sufficient in order to fulfill their contractual obligations, which threatens billions of dollars in fines, not to mention the fact, to meet the growing demand for gas in Europe. 
In 2017, the Russian company has circulated through the territory of Ukraine record in recent years, the volume of 93 billion cubic meters of gas. Even if by 2020 “Gazprom has already built and fully commissioned “Nord stream-2” (capacity 55 billion cubic meters) and both lines of the “Turkish stream” (of 15.75 billion cubic meters each), still it appears that 5-10 billion cubic meters will be missed. And the construction of the second line of the “Turkish stream” is open to question, since Bulgaria, Hungary and Romania have not given permission to lay pipes on its territory, and gas going through the pipeline, can only come to the Turkish market. In addition, in mid-March it became known that “Gazprom” will dispose of the pipes in connection with the reduction of power of the “Turkish stream” from 63 to 31.5 billion cubic meters of gas per year. 
Simon Pirani of the Oxford Institute for energy studies calculated that to completely abandon the Ukrainian transit while maintaining their long-term contracts, “Gazprom” will be able only to 2024. And, assuming that demand will not grow too fast. In 2017 the export of gas to European countries made up of 193.6 billion cubic meters, which is 8.1% more than in 2016. 
Given these circumstances, a new transit contract with Ukraine seems inevitable, but it is difficult to imagine conditions under which it may be concluded. 
Recall that after the decision of the Stockholm arbitration is not in favor of Gazprom in a dispute with Naftogaz, the Russian company declared the termination of all existing contracts with Ukraine, including transit, and the beginning of the procedure. This, of course, did not accept neither Kiev, which began to face new lawsuits and the seizure of property, nor the Europeans, who called on the parties to implement the decision of arbitration and contractual obligations. 
The Ukrainian side has already stated that it will require trilateral talks with Russia and the EU on gas transit after 2019. Until then, Kiev is planning to start from decisions of the Stockholm arbitration. As noted by the head of the commercial legal practice of BMS Law Firm Denis Frolov, it is still not clear how will the termination of existing contracts. If you can not prove that the grounds for unilateral termination is not, “Gazprom” will pay compensation for the severance of relations, and are likely to be very significant. See also: The new iPhone will soon go on sale in Ukraine 
However, the Deputy Director of the national energy security Fund (NESF) Alex Grivach believes that negotiations on a new transit contract and proceedings on the decision of the Stockholm arbitration and termination of existing agreements can go hand in hand. 
— European leadership initiated the question of how to keep the transit through the territory of Ukraine. Russian authorities have officially said that they are ready to go for it, if this is done on a commercially adequate conditions for the constructive negotiations. The problem is that Kiev such negotiations are not wanted. Now it is obvious that we cannot do without them. Perhaps, in order to bring the Ukrainian side to the negotiating table, it is necessary that Europe exerted pressure on her. 
Gas export to Europe is growing, and this trend will continue unless suspended by political means. But in this case Ukraine will become the first victim, because to reduce the first thing will be the transit through its territory. Now the continuation of transit benefits all parties, but this requires an adequate negotiation. 
If Ukraine wanted to keep the transit through their territory, she had to make commercially viable offer to “Gazprom”. They are still required to raise fares and put forward even more inadequate. The Ukrainian side is behaving like a taxi driver who wring exorbitant and not market prices, with the result that the customer decided to buy my own car. Now this taxi driver need to sit and think, it is not time to start acting civilized. 
“SP”: — And as to the proceedings in the Stockholm affect the negotiations on the transit? 
— Agreement on the implementation of the decisions of the arbitration has not yet been achieved. Gazprom is taking measures to protect their interests through appeal. This process is not yet complete, and it is happening in the legal field. But in the civilized world arbitration does not preclude the continuation of negotiations. On the contrary, often during the parties enter into a settlement agreement and withdraw the lawsuits. The problem is that this issue in Ukraine is highly politicized, but if you want to solve it. 
Analyst at JSC “Finam” Alexey Kalachev has explained that “Gazprom” do not do without transit through Ukraine after 2019, and for several reasons. 
— I think the Ukrainian transit in one form or another will remain in demand, even if “Gazprom” suddenly somehow aktiviziruyutsya in the construction of gas pipelines in the southern direction. However, this in itself is unlikely, no wonder they decided to dismantle part of the pipes laid in the calculation of the “South” and “Turkish” threads. In the current conditions of foreign policy coordination of additional threads “Turkish stream” or the resumption of the South stream is unlikely. 
But even if all the plans of “Gazprom” remained in force, its pipelines are only to Europe, but there is another side. Internal European gas transmission system partly closed to Ukrainian transit, and the construction of branches of the “flows” of “Gazprom” is late. 
In addition, the EU linked the approval for the construction of “Nord stream-2,” with the transit through Ukraine and will not support the plans for its complete cessation of any kind. 
Again, calculate the volumes. Last year export “Gazprom” of natural gas reached a record level for 193.9 billion m3. With the growth of demand is not a version of the 200 billion m3. Even a full download of all the threads of both “Northern streams” may not exceed 110 billion m3. The transit through Belarus gives a maximum of 32 billion m3. European thread “Turkish stream,” to the end, by the way, not harmonized with Europe, will increase only 15.5 billion m3 per year. Ukrainian transit is able to provide transportation to the rest of the volume and also to make a reserve capacity, which will not prevent to have, if we proceed only from economic interests. See also: New shale boom has stalled for the reasons given a year ago 
“SP”: — will it be Possible to negotiate with Ukraine on a new transit contract, taking into account political differences? 
— We my opinion, to reach agreement on the continuation of transit gas through Ukraine is possible and even necessary from an economic point of view. But it is also obvious that in this issue too many policies. It is unlikely that decisions on termination or extension of contracts with Ukraine are taken by the management of “Gazprom” without the consent of the political leadership of the country. And at this level, economic interests are not always the key. 
Ukraine needs the income from gas transit. The EU is interested in the continuation of the Ukrainian transit route and at the objective and for political reasons. If the EU decides to act as a mediator in resolving the dispute between “Gazprom” and “Naftogaz”, its position can be used in bargaining on a wide range of issues, including sanctions, Crimea, Syria, etc. However, I think the likelihood of such a bargaining is small. 
If we could take politics out of the equation, the parties could agree to continue cooperation on terms favorable to all. But, as to render the policy of the brackets will not work, to predict the further development of this dispute is meaningless. 
It is clear only that “Gazprom” does not intend so simply to agree with the unfavourable decision of the Stockholm arbitration, and shall endeavour, if not for its abolition, then at least for all sorts of delaying its execution. The startup procedure of contract termination through the Stockholm arbitration is one of its protective tools in fact, to bundle to two opposite claims on which the decision has already been made by the arbitrator added a third. 
“SP”: — While this claim is considered, what will happen to the transit of gas? 
— The results of two arbitration of disputes between companies on supply and transit of gas “Gazprom” should pay, “Naftogaz” of 2.56 billion. I suppose “Gazprom” has agreed with these decisions if they are compensated each other without a trace. Since this did not happen, when he instigated the renegotiation, I think he will seek compensation for this difference is at least zero, if not in their favor. 
Consideration is a long process. Apparently, while it lasts, the parties may enter into some temporary arrangement, not to stop the transit of gas completely. In the presence of mutual goodwill that is not obstructed. 
Head of marketing group “Alekhine and partners” the novel Alekhin is also convinced that Ukraine will somehow have to negotiate. 
— At “Gazprom” there is no other choice but to accelerate the pace of construction. This means capital costs, taking into account the decision of the Stockholm arbitration and the applicable fines have a significant impact on the Russian economy. Most likely, it won’t take any chances and will go for an agreement with Kiev on the transit. On what terms is not yet clear, but they must not yield to possible risks. 
It is expected that the EU will act as an intermediary in this process, because the demand for Russian gas in Europe is growing every year. The Ukrainian route is the only option by which they can get it, and for “Gazprom” transit through Ukraine is the only way to close the year 2020 for all long-term contracts with consumers.  