Joshua committed to Hearn but willing to listen to mega money UFC offer By irishboxing | on March 25, 2018 | Headline News 
Anthony Joshua is willing to sit down and see what Dana White and the UFC have to say after hearing the MMA mogul is interested in making a mega money deal with the heavyweight champion of the World. 
White, who co promoted the money spinning Mayweather McGregor event last year revealed he was looking to branch out into boxing. 
There has been speculation aplenty as to how combining UFC and a boxing wing would work, but it seems the UFC President is looking to enter the game at the top. Widgets Magazine 

According to The Daily Telegraph , “an audacious bid to sign a promotional multi-fight deal with Anthony Joshua which could earn the Londoner $500 million and make him the richest British boxer of all time”. 
White will travel to Cardiff for Joshua’s unification clash with New Zealander Joseph Parker and plans to hold talks with the fighter of Nigerian and Irish heritage and Matchroom’s leading light is willing to listen. Joshua not interested in cross code clashes but is willing to listen to UFC boss White 
The Olympic 2012 gold medal winner first has to emerge victorious against a fellow big punching World champ. Despite being as wide as 11/2 on Grosvenor Sport there are some pundits who believe the WBO belt holder will cause Joshua problems. 
However, if Joshua does win and add another belt to his record he will pay heed to what White has to say. 
The heavyweight, who could pocket record breaking purses with fights against the likes of Deontay Wilder and Tyson Fury over the coming 12 months, was adamant he wouldn’t be moving over to MMA nor is he interested in leaving Eddie Hearn, but did say he would listen to White. 
“Listen, I’m riding with Eddie,” Joshua said. “I’ve been riding with Eddie. He got me from the get-go. I’m not into the UFC, so I don’t know what their plans are. I’m interested because we can all work together. 
“Remember, mine and Eddie’s relationship is a really good working relationship. And I’m sure Eddie has an interest in working with Dana White. If it’s good business, it makes sense. 
“We’ll listen and 100%, if it makes sense we’re all ears. I’m happy that Dana is coming into the game. Hopefully he can add some excitement and we can progress forward and make some good money and make some good fights.” Share this: