NewsBoard 0 Comments 039 
How independent is INEC? 
The electoral body in Nigeria assumed different names before it became the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The addition of “independent” is to reflect the power given to this body as a commission that has a level of power and authority including an initiative to carry out its duties. 
The word “interference” and “teleguide” can be interchangeably used where an emphasis is placed on the need for freedom required for the electoral body. Emerging hypocritical sensibilities in the operation of the electoral body raise a question how independent is the electoral body? The constitution gives the provisions for the establishment of the electoral body. The body, in turn, has its own law for operational purpose. In some instances when electoral law contradicts the constitutional provision, the provision of the constitution should prevail. But the historic incident of 2015 in Kogi state gubernatorial election result declared inclusive and the subsequent substitution with someone who was not in the campaign train and who was later discovered to have critical issue with INEC, all suggested the party is supreme and above the constitution and the electoral body. The 2007 general election results exposed some doubt as regards the freedom of the electoral body. Some governorship election results were cancelled, making late President Yara’dua to state that if the election that brought him to power was found faulty, he was ready to step aside. 
INEC and underage voters 
The electoral body can assert itself with firmness, comprehensive rules and regulations as regard electoral matters. But the recent development about election time-table casts some doubt on whether there is some interference or teleguide? When the National Assembly reviewed the time-table, what I expected was the citing of the relevant portions of INEC law and the power conferred on it on electoral matters. INEC rushed to create election time-table up to 2055 and the President declined assent as rightly guessed. To me, this suggests hypocritical sensibilities. 2015 time-table and subsequent postponement due to the said alert from the security system that would protect people and facilities of the electoral body indicated that INEC was somehow 
dependent. 
The wind that blew for postponement in 2015 may still be blowing. Otherwise time-table is a trivial issue that should not degenerate. INEC should be allowed to do its job or INEC should be advised not to compromise. Winning election is not solely based on election schedule but the performance of the ruling party and the credibility of individuals contesting. There are more critical issues for the electoral body and the arms of government than the mountain we are making out of the mole hill. Theophilus Sunday, 
The post How independent is INEC? appeared first on Tribune . 0 