24 March 2018, 10:42 In Grozny, drug control service massively seizes muscle pills from pharmacies and shops 
In Grozny, agents of drug control service have seized 14,000 packages of potent anabolic drugs from pharmacies, sports nutrition stores and gyms, the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIA) for Chechnya reported. 
"They are looking for dietary supplements with high content of strong drugs. In general, those dietary supplements are bought by young people who want to quickly gain weight and build muscles," said Khasan, an owner of a sports nutrition store. 
Entrepreneurs have reported that on March 16, at a meeting with the leaders of the Chechen Economic and Public Security Service, they were told that they were "poisoning young people." 
A Chechen policeman has noted that inspections will be held throughout the republic. 
Doctor Tamerlan has explained that such drugs can seriously damage health, including provoking infertility and cancer. 
Meanwhile, dietary supplements are often sold directly in gyms, the "Caucasian Knot" correspondent reports. 
  All news; Economics; Society; Chechnya; North-Caucasian Federal District All news 
Circassian activists from Kabardino-Balkaria and other Russian regions have raised money for treatment of Dina Tamukh, a Syrian resident, in Russia, but her transportation became impossible due to the deterioration of her health condition. March 25, 2018 15:34 
The counterterrorist operation (CTO) regime in the village of Andi, Botlikh District of Dagestan, where a militant was killed on March 24, has been cancelled, the Russian National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) has stated. March 25, 2018 14:52 
Giorgi Mikeladze, detained within the case of the "Leogrand" Hotel, has stated that he had been unreasonably persecuted. According to his advocate, Mikeladze had no relation to the boiler room, where the fire broke out and killed 11 persons. March 25, 2018 07:54 
Alexei Sizonovich, a citizen of Ukraine, convicted on charges of plotting a terror act in the Rostov Region, told the Ukrainian Consul about the torture he was subjected to in Rostov-on-Don. March 24, 2018 23:16 
The head of Chechnya, Ramzan Kadyrov, has publicized a video from the village of Benoi showing Shaa Turlaev, announced wanted on suspicion of high-profile murders and murder attempts. Kadyrov has treated Turlaev as "the best of the best." TOPICS OF THE DAY