Relationship / Jealousy how to deal with it? 
Often we have to face in the relationship with jealousy. Sometimes it's even pretty cute when the guy got jealous and did something unusual, for example, in front of everybody confessed to you in love. Jealousy is sometimes spur of the moment to strengthen the relationship, people suddenly understand that can not do without each other to live. Such episodes of jealousy should not be too frequent, and certainly not to pass the limits of respect for the partner. 
frequently, However, the jealousy passes all bounds, becomes a cause of daily quarrels and fights, sometimes there is jealousy of the past, especially if there is something to remember, and jealousy all around, including friends, work colleagues, etc. 
Jealousy how to fight it? 
Certain recipes how to overcome jealousy does not exist, as all people are different and it is impossible to say which method will be more effective in this pair. 
In this delicate matter needs an individual approach to each partner. Both male and female jealousy a little pleasure from the relationship and destroys everything that was built on love and harmony. 
If in your relationship appeared excessive jealousy how to deal with it you can learn from this article. 
So, what is jealousy? 
Zeal is a negative reaction in response to the lack (or perceived lack of) attention from the partner, to which there is an emotional attachment. 
When jealousy is often manifested in the relationship then the partner is jealous, some psychologists and psychiatrists regard it as the line between healthy and painful emotions. Excessive jealousy refers to the manifestations of neurosis from neurotic personality. 
And this Happens when this line is crossed, and the feeling of jealousy goes into the category of clinical symptoms. In such cases, there is great danger of the occurrence of affect (emotional outburst) against the backdrop of jealousy, which is often accompanied by violent acts against them or against the partner. 
Jealousy how to fight it you can understand only by analyzing the behavior of your partner. You need to understand in which cases he (she) has a flash of jealousy, what people or events it is associated, as manifested jealousy, etc. be Sure to watch yourself, you might really give a reason for the spouse to get jealous themselves, or maybe just between you, there is no reciprocity and you are together only out of habit. 
After all this you will notice for yourself, analyze, then get some conclusions. You know, at least, the reasons on their part. And maybe by removing them, relations will improve, and your pair will be "peace and love". 
But, if not, then you need to look for the cause in him (it). The first thing you just need to call the partner in an open conversation, and right to talk about what is bothering you, tell me what you worry about and work together to find a solution to this problem. And you don't have to wonder: jealousy how to deal with it? Be sure that your spouse wanted to do so, but did not dare. It's not as easy as it seems. 
If your partner doesn't want to discuss it, and does not come into direct contact, and quarrels and negativity with his (her) hand continues, you should think whether you need the person who doesn't even want to listen and hear you. And maybe it is just psychological vampire, and gets the energy from you when quarrels and contentions. To such people it gives a kind of pleasure, at the same time, they even do not speculate about this. But, if you still love that person and want to be with him, then you just need to seek the advice of an experienced therapist. In such cases, only a qualified technician can solve your problem. 