Cars / The anther ball joint: review, device, scheme 
Ball joint in automobiles – is one of the elements of the suspension system tyres and wheels. Thanks to this support arm is rigidly, but with some mobility, fixed to the wheel hub. This is the prop located on the bottom of the car and is experiencing a serious load. To protect the mechanism against the damaging effects of dust and dirt from the road, use the boot of the ball joint. 
This detail in its design is the hinge by which the wheel hub is fixed to the suspension arm. The main task, which solves element – is to give the steering wheel the freedom to move in horizontal planes, but the motion in the vertical plane – to eliminate completely. But ball detail can be seen not only as supports of the hub. They are installed in the breakup levers, steering trapeze. 
Also, this hinge is found in some gas stops of the hood. Previously, instead of ball bearings used pivot hinges. It is a heavy instrument for a great work required a significant amount of lubricants. The most important thing – the wheel was given the freedom to rotate only in one axis, which is not the best way affect drivability in General. The engineers who created the ball bearing, already knew that she will experience enormous loads. Any impact from the roadway will be given to this joint. Also suffering the boot of the CV joint and shock absorbers. All this adversely affects the health of the suspension and the steering mechanism. 
The Part is not steel coated with a diamond coating as much sense in this. And the mechanism itself has become a consumable item, which if necessary can be easily replaced. The anther ball joint mechanism partially protects the joint from wear due to the abrasive action of dirt and dust. If this protective element was not the life of the hinge was a few days. How to construct support 
At the beginning of this item looked like in the form of a shell, in which was installed the ball-joint finger, preloaded via the metal plate spring. The top was installed the boot of the ball joint. To detail worked more than two or three days, laid down a sufficient amount of lubricant. Those who serve such details, you know, what kind of grease, but rather its quantity and quality must be regularly checked. But this design was not always used. When came the era of plastic, of the element removed the spring. Part of the finger was enclosed in a detail that resembles a hemisphere. 
It was formed of inserts made of plastic. More design has not changed, and the only change – is to replace the plastic nylon, which has greater resistance to wear. Manufacturers today produce a serviceable and maintenance-free hinges. So, in the health service have special nipples. They can be disassembled to replace the grease. However, the last ten years, modular construction is not used. How many ball bearings in the car? 
The Number of these joints boils down to what type of suspension installed in the car. In the most simple system of the "McPherson" uses two elements. They are both located downstairs. With increasing leverage increases and the number of supports. 
Double wishbone suspension systems are mounted on two bearings on each side – top and bottom. In the most complex solutions can be up to five elements. The Need of the boot 
The dust Boot of a ball bearing installed always and it does not matter – a collapsible hinge or not, separate or integrated into the lever. As is clear from the description of algorithm steps and design support, it is constantly in motion. To the work of the joint was maximally extended and the presence of lubricant and the cleanliness of the rubbing surfaces. If lubricants or just the rubbing surfaces will be sand, dirt or dust, then these substances will work as abrasives. This will lead to intensive wear of friction between parts. What should be the boot? 
The ball joint Boot is designed to protect the mechanism from dirt, sand, and other contaminants from the road. This is the case of rubber, which is placed on the specific node. In addition, the bellow protects the item from dirt, it also allows you to prevent the leakage of lubricant from the joint. The dust cover is tightly fixed on the support. That element could perfectly perform its protective function, it has a number of specific characteristics and properties. 
The Item must be elastic, as the joint is movable. Also, the product does not lose its properties in a wide temperature range. In the winter, when the temperature can drop low enough, the boot is resilient. But it must be too soft when exposed to high temperatures. The product is made of a material that is not susceptible to corrosive environments or chemicals. Mostnodes that are protected by dust boots and ball joint including located on the outer side. There is a risk that their surface can get chemicals or reagents. Additionally, the boot is resistant to contact with fuel and lubricants. Inside site, you have the lubricant, and means on the inner surface of the product it will too. Possible leakage of the lubricant, and the part is on the outside of the part. What is the element? 
Dust Boot lower ball joint (or top) is a cover in the form of “mushroom”. The widest part of the element is worn directly on the body. Finger passes through a narrow opening. These products are often fixed only to the housing. To do this, use the snap ring. The finger fixation is not needed. The protective element is held by shrink fit. Replacement dust boot ball joint 
In the event of damage to the part to replace it is very simple. 
It is Enough to disconnect the node from the wheel hub. Then using a screwdriver, use it to pry out the retaining ring, and the protective element is easily removed from the support. You can now install the new element, but first before you install it is better to wash the friction surface of the bearings and lubricate them. If down came the lower support, then replaced both parts, even if the top is intact. Also changing the dust boot upper ball joint. Often it comes in the kit. Summary 
Replacing a boot is inexpensive. Therefore, in the case of damage, no need to pull with the purchase. This detail prevents the exit of the ball joint failure. Any diagnosis chassis and suspension of the car starts with the verification of the seals. After all, if torn boot, it will soon wear out and the site that he defended. The anther ball joint vases can be bought for 200-300 rubles, but its role in the suspension system are quite serious. Reasons fail ball joints, only three. First the shock loads on the suspension system. It happens, if you go through the rails at high speeds. The second reason-lack of lubrication where it is needed. And finally, the third – the ruined boot. So do not underestimate the function of these elements. Timely replacement of the boot will prevent costly repairs ball joint. 