Press Release 26 March 2018 HFTP Announces Exclusive CIO/CFO Event Sponsorship Agreement with Fourteen IP at HITEC Amsterdam 
AUSTIN, TEXAS, USA – Hospitality Financial and Technology Professionals (HFTP®), an international nonprofit and producers of the Hospitality Industry Technology Exposition and Conference (HITEC®), is pleased to announce its exclusive CIO/CFO event sponsorship agreement with Fourteen IP Communications Ltd at the upcoming HITEC Amsterdam 2018. The invitation-only event that brings together CIOs and CFOs from leading hotel and hospitality companies from across Europe will take place on 11 April to kick-off HITEC Amsterdam , which is taking place from 11-13 April at the RAI Amsterdam Convention Centre. 
The CIO/CFO pre-conference event will feature a welcome and introductions from HFTP, updates on the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and the Data Protection Officer role, as well as CIO and CFO roundtable discussions. The roundtable discussions will bring together high-level, hospitality CIOs and CFOs from across Europe for a face-to-face discussion on crucial issues their companies are encountering. 
"We are excited to have Fourteen IP as an exclusive sponsor for the CIO/CFO event at HITEC Amsterdam next month," said HFTP CEO Frank Wolfe. "As a leading systems integrator specializing in voice and data solutions, the team at Fourteen IP has been helping make hospitality communications simple and effective for 25 years. Looking forward to an innovative partnership at HITEC Amsterdam." 
"We are very proud to be not just exhibiting at HITEC Amsterdam, but also taking the lead sponsorship on the CIO/CFO day," said Neil Tolley, managing director at Fourteen IP. "It's a great opportunity for us to network with the people we really want to speak to and to tell them a little about our company and our solutions, as well as bringing our usual sense of fun to the evening's events. We are very grateful to the HFTP team for their superb support." 
For more information on HITEC Amsterdam marketing opportunities, contact HFTP COO, Europe Carl Weldon at or +1 (512) 220-4164. For more information about HFTP's global activities, contact the HFTP Meetings & Special Events Department at or visit the HFTP web site . 
HITEC Amsterdam will be the first of three HITEC events in 2018. The larger HITEC Houston will take place 18-21 June at the George R. Brown Convention Center in Houston, Texas USA. HITEC Dubai will take place 5-6 December at the Madinat Jumeirah in Dubai, UAE. 
Contact