Beauty / The ice for the face 
Wiping the face with ice – this is a good micro-massage that improves blood circulation, skin tone its firmness and elasticity, stimulates the metabolism, strengthens muscles, removes from the tissues the waste products.. And this largely is the secret of youth. After exposure to cold begin to expand deep vessels and narrow surface, increases metabolism. 
To Start cryoprocedure can be with youth, not to allow the skin to fade and to maintain its elasticity. Remember, however, that not everyone fits the rubbing with ice. This is not advisable in case of strong irritation and inflammation on the skin. 
The Ice for face wiping (or cosmetic) has a beneficial effect on the skin. There are quite a few recipes which help to cope with different challenges: wrinkles, open pores, under eye circles, dullness, or excessive paleness of the skin. 
To Prepare the ice you can at home. It does not require excessive effort and time. First of all, take a decoction or infusion of herbs and molds for ice. Wipe the face of frozen broth twice a day. 
The easiest option for all occasions – frozen mineral water without gases. If brew herbs, this should be done with boiling water, leave for a few hours, strain and then pour into molds and freeze. 
The ice for the face of the decoctions and juices can be stored for up to five days. Do not use for cooking water from the tap, it is advisable to take mineral or purified (filtered). 
During the procedure it is impossible to SuperCool the skin. Contact with a cold should not last more than five seconds a part. After cryomassage not, it is recommended to wipe face with a towel. First healing composition with the beneficial trace elements and vitamins should be almost fully absorbed into the skin, and after that residues with a wet cloth. 
As a cosmetic ice face feedback is mostly positive. However, not all believe that cold is useful for such procedures as the facial skin is too delicate. However, the cosmetologists of the procedure is to give no advise. 
Ice for skin rejuvenation 
A Good way to rejuvenate the skin is ice, green tea and lemon juice, diluted 1:1. It is possible for the same purpose use a decoction of dandelion and mint. 
Ice skin whitening 
To get Rid of age spots by using ice of marigold, strawberry, grapefruit, cucumber juice or decoction of parsley. 
Ice for the face for normal skin 
Best for this skin type are suitable the following herbs: peppermint, plantain, Valerian, yarrow, violet, dill, sage and St. John's wort. To collect herbs by yourself, you can buy in a drugstore (it is better to buy filter bags). 
Also good job keep skin in perfect condition the ice of the undiluted juice of watermelon, strawberry, apricot, grape and peach. 
Ice for the face for dry skin 
In this case, the most suitable red berries (hawthorn and mountain ash). For making ice, two spoons of berries pour water (boiled), infused for two hours, only then you can put the broth into the molds in the freezer. Also effective herbal teas of lime, rose petals, hops, parsley, lemon balm, dandelion and dill. 
Ice for the face for oily skin 
For this skin type is characterized by problems such as enlarged pores, blackheads, pimples, Shine. To cope with this help decoction of chamomile, yarrow, chicory, mother and stepmother, sage, birch leaves, peony, Lily petals, horsetail, calendula and Hypericum. You can brew a few herbs at once, not just individually. 
Ice to get rid of acne 
Acne can be reduced and even get rid of it completely by using ice made with salt. In a glass of boiled water a tablespoon of salt. Effective remedy-ice from the decoction of chamomile or sage, and aloe juice. 
Ice to get rid of circles under the eyes 
The Most effective means to combat the "bruises" – ice milk, diluted half with water. Also helps to cope with the problem of a decoction of parsley. 
Stay beautiful! 