Philips Lighting introduces cloud-based data platform Interact   14:52 CET | News Philips Lighting, which recently started offering Light Fidelity (LiFi) broadband connections , has announced Interact, a new platform for the Internet of Things (IoT). As well as new connected lighting systems for its Interact IoT platform, with the aim of powering a growing portfolio of data-enabled services. Philips Lighting has already installed 29 million connected light points worldwide and is aiming to connect every new LED product it produces by 2020. Interact will be able to hand all the data coming from the system of connected light points, sensors and devices. 
Philips said its new cloud-based platform, secure and scalable, uses data management and data processing capabilities, including machine learning. Applications go beyond illumination. One example of a service Interact could analyse is the occupancy data from different buildings. This would help managers better understand and predict how people use office space. This could save money by better using office space and or in the design of more efficient buildings. As another example, data from authorised third-parties could also be analyzed. For example, municipal authorities could analyse reaction on news articles and social media posts to new lighting installation on a bridge, and so summarize public sentiment. This could also foster innovation from third-party developers, development partners and customers. Interact includes a developer portal and a growing suite of licensed APIs, so that various data-enabled services can be developed. 
Under the Interact platform, Philips has a number of connected lighting systems aimed at improving lighting and generating/uploading data to the Interact IoT platform. These include Interact City (public space lighting, roads, streets, pedestrian areas, parks and plazas), Interact Landmark (architectural lighting), Interact Office (offices and commercial buildings), Interact Retail (large retail and food stores) and Interact Sports (stadiums). Interact Industry will follow later this year, geared to the specific lighting needs of factories, warehouses and logistics centers. Other segment-specific Interact lighting systems will be added to the Interact portfolio in the future.  