At your service: Enjoy the hotel guest treatment at home March 26, 2018 9:36 am 
In an Exclusive for AMEinfo, Saad Audeh, Founding Member & Managing Director of the Audeh Group and Chairman of Campbell Gray Hotels, weighs in on the outlook of hotel construction in the MENA region. 
Below is his analysis on why mixed-use developments and serviced residences are on the up. 
In the past, travelers (both business & leisure) only resorted to fully serviced apartments in the case of extended stays of more than a week or for larger groups; but times have changed. Read: Have you made your hotel reservations yet, in space?! 
Travelers are now looking to replicate the serviced apartment and hotel experience at home – they want to feel like hotel guests in their own homes. 
The luxury end of the market, has indicated an increase in demand for serviced apartments; especially those serviced by a hotel. 
These apartments, usually located in the same building or beside the hotel property, are serviced by the hotel enjoying all the, amenities, luxuries and services available to a hotel guest. 
These amenities can include spas, fitness centres and F&B outlets. 
In the case of mixed-use properties, residents can also take advantage of the retail spaces, and sometimes even office space within the development, making it more attractive and creating demand. Read: Top 7 business hotels in Kuwait 
The right investment 
This is the reason why many investors and buyers are now seeking hotel residences for investment and demand has been rising in the Middle East in the past few years. 
This is particularly the case when looking at branded residences that are associated with a renowned hotel group, as it offers a level of confidence and assurance when it comes to quality and resale value. 
It can also offer innovative architecture, designer interiors and outstanding quality which is a bonus for buyers and investors. 
Those looking into branded residences generally identify with a certain lifestyle and taste closely associated with that brand and can then replicate the ethos within their own living space. 
There is also the additional benefit of a higher return on investment when compared to regular residences when looking at renting out the apartments or even resale. Hotel Tech 2018: All you need to know about tech tools that deliver value 
The way forward 
From my point of view as a hotelier and realtor, I think serviced hotel apartments are definitely the way forward. Recent studies conducted by Colliers International show that luxury hotel chains are now expanding their portfolios and diversifying into boutique hotels, luxury resorts and designer branded residences to meet the changes in attitude within the market. 
Hotel residences have seen stronger resilience through tough times when compared to hotels. 
This business and investment model continues to evolve to provide investors with an increasingly established asset class in the region. 
Retail space, in addition to the apartments, provides another attractive investment within each development. Read: 11 things you didn’t know about Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg 
The Middle East potential 
Trends show that a construction boom is shaping up for the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region in 2018. The MENA, is the fastest growing region globally for the construction sector and is set to outpace the global growth, expanding by 5.8% to hit $225bn, according to BMI Research, a Fitch group company. 
The MENA will be, both in the short and long-term, expanding by an annualised average of 6.5% over the next five years to hit $330bn. 
Positive demographics, gradually rising oil prices, and ambitious economic diversification agendas throughout the region will have a positive impact on the property market making the Middle East attractive for investors. 
Markets in the Middle East are progressively growing, due to the increased tourism initiatives by governments, so demand for room nights will increase. Read: Trump will soon be able to access all your smartphone cloud data 
Saudi Arabia is expected to be a hot spot in the region with many new opportunities opening in the tourism sector. The Kingdom’s diversification plans, new visa programs and large-scale projects are expected to contribute to the growth in tourism, for both business and leisure tourism. 
Recent data revealed in November 2017 by hotel industry research firm, STR, showed that demand for room nights in Dubai alone went up year-over-year by 2.7%, reaching an all-time high. 
Jordan is another market that has become increasingly attractive for investors in the Middle East. 
An oasis of political stability in the Middle East, Jordan, according to the IMF, is expected to experience a GDP growth of 4% by 2019. This will positively benefit the real estate market in the country, especially in the capital Amman. 
Our most recent venture is Campbell Gray Living Amman, a development by Al Seraje Real Estate, a subsidiary of the Audeh Group. 
With a unique combination of attributes that create an attractive environment for business and investment, Jordan is gaining popularity as an international business and investment hub. Campbell Gray Living Residences is a mixed-use development offering both serviced and non-serviced hotel residences, together with office space, retail options and F&B outlets.