Listed: March 18, 2018 11:09 PM Expires: 29 days, 14 hours Description 
Adult Travel Escort For Young Film Exec. Must be “Live-In. Earn; 19 k-Mthly. Live in Bikinil 
Description You may have seen my other post. Yes its 19 k mthly. I need a woman ” any ages “.. that tends to be very attenitive,. (Looks or faces)..not important. No concern.. Always eyeing his basket in public and in business meets, etc. Your attention and display of interest is my basket and kissing my lips often. I need her to distract those business people around me all the time. So I can get a jump on ideas I present, deal with contracts and focus over those aggressive associates. She must be very much affectionate in display and able to show a high fetish to the male parts/ as orgins. Her attention there will give more distractions by others. She should be hands on allot, always into feeling his manhood. These photos below, are of my 2nd–home. At the beach. The main house, is shown on other postings here. Both I have paid off, my morgages.You will meet w/me to see if you want this job or not. If you don’t like me, of course you will not want this job…U have to only consider me in person. Not hiring unless you fit me. Enjoy permanent life, as a Live-in Showbiz estate of one of many as executives to movie studio. Only this one owns the estate soley and lives there alone. Young forties white male, teen model now hippy So casual in jeans at home. He has no kids and no ex-wifes around. He is a bachelor and lives alone there. . He Pays 15.4 grand mthly to Escort. You do not need ” any experience ” at this. ( But please do some homework, and go see what adult-escorts do )…Not wanting any professional. You must be able to appear on camera at press media time for live events award shows monthly as a wing girl arm candy to executive. WIll help You must be in California to apply. If your out of state, wait until you arrive then contact. Tell him where you live in California to get a meeting. 14.4-grand monthly is the salary under contract arranged thru my accounted firm/ I use in Beverly Hills-rodeo drive district. They handle all my bills and paychecks of those agencies I use. Like the ” Domestic Svc’s Agency for my home cleaning, etc…So understand this.( Don’t contact if your not in locally of California. Wait until your in area of California then contact directly; promote films. Full Time. Email me direct; castingtalent122@gmail.com (just remind me, what post Ur replying to please) 26 total views, 23 today