T-Mobile Poland introduces smart city product as permanent offer   14:04 CET | News 
T-Mobile Poland has introduced smart city as permanent offer, following successful pilot projects in the cities of Nysa and Pionki in 2017. The offer includes smart lighting, innovative city monitoring, monitoring of air quality and WiFi hotspots. 
Intelligent image analysis system with the function of video detection allows to increase the effectiveness of threat detectability to 95 percent. Until now, the city video monitoring system recorded the image and sent it to the management centre. The operator then analyses the records from multiple cameras at the same time. As a result, the detectability of threats oscillated at only around 60 percent. The operator has already introduced a similar system in Pionki. 
The smart city lighting pilot was implemented in Nysa, and will now be extended to all cities. The reduction of costs can be reached by using LED lights, as well as by energy consumption optimisation thanks to the possibility of remote control of each lantern separately as well as the system of notification of failures. In addition, if necessary, the lighting will be set to automatically adjust its intensity to weather conditions and traffic. 
The system of smart monitoring of air quality was installed in Nysa, and after its success, T-Mobile is adding it to its permanent offer. In Poland, the concentration of pollutants is very high. The only reliable source of information on this topic are still GIOS measurement stations, and those are still scarce in Poland . This infrastructure can be supplemented with a small cost, thanks to which it is easier to diagnose the cause of smog in particular parts of the city. 
Measuring stations offered by T-Mobile are able to measure various types of parameters, including the concentration of PM10, PM2.5 and PM1 suspended dusts. The measuring devices can also be equipped with sensors allowing to measure the concentration of other substances, including sulphates, ozone or nitrates. 
Wi-fi hotspots throughout the city has also been included in the T-Mobile offer after successful tests. Thanks to the option of displaying messages on the login screen, the city can inform about local events, and regional enterprises buy advertisement, thus contributing to the city budget. The infrastructure can also be used to create a modern passenger information system in buses and trams.  