Author MetalMilitia 
Witam Doomster Reich! How have you been? 
Witaj Metalowa Milicjo, we’ve been just marvelous lately taking a lot of acid and worshiping ancient deities and demons alike! 
Can you talk to us more about your latest stuff? 
It’s the first full album we collectively think sets some ground for our style. We wanted to merge some of the classic rock & doom metal sounds with psychedelia, especially it’s less friendly variant showcased by bands like early Can or German Oak. We want to keep the dirt and submerge our listeners into a void of pure consciousness devoid of positive thinking bullshit. 
Did any event in particular inspire you to write this album? Where did you find the inspiration for the songs and lyrics? 
As said before, anything ranging from Sabbaths, the Stooges, Pentagram, Hawkwind old Alice Cooper records and Krautrock bands. As for the lyrics, what inspires me is all that is happening around, simply seen through a specific lense, be it being under the influence psychedelics or as seen through occult references which make you view things differently. 
Any plans to release a new video for some track? 
Two videos that were made so far were done by our friend, basist of Maggoth, Grucha. We like them and it’s cool they’re around but honestly we’re more into just buying an album and listening to it back to back. It’s a nice to have rathet than must have, at least for me. No plans so far. 
How was the recording and writing process? 
Writing of Drug Magick went for long. I think we scrapped almost everything half way through and transformed it overtime considerably. The album is finally out and we’re satisfied. To make it clear, it was never a problem of having a few ideas but rather dealing with their abundance hehe. Now we got a hang of it and we’re nearly done with the second album. We are more and more relying on use of LSD & Mushrooms during the writing process – unless we take too much that is hehe. As for recording we had an awesome cooperation with Kamil Bobrukiewicz from Radio Lodz. We recorded in a huge concert studio built in the 50s or so. All the walls with wooden panels on them, that kind of thing. He really digs our stuff and he’s not biased by any genre in particular. We like to keep our sound raw and not overproduced and he just had to take barely a handful of tips to get what we wanted. As Markiz described it to him “I want the guitars to sound like a tiger shredding someone alive”. What you hear is the effect. 
What was it like to work with Aesthetic Death (UK) and Old Temple (your local label) and how did that relationship develop? 
I think both Eryk and Stu were geniunely liking what we recorded. I remember sending Stu some samples via soundcloud and shit but he cams back saying he’d had a listen if I send it the right way, physical copy over snail-mail. That called for respect so without hesitation I pressed on, sent the whole album and we ended-up working together. It’s really gratifying if you get released not because you know the guy, had a couple drinks together and someone’s doing you a favor. That’s a frequent case in the polish underground. 
How much each musician influence the album? 
I’d say it’s 50-50 me & Markiz who writes the material, even more so on the new stuff we’re working on. Some of the tracks are written either together or entirely by one of us. Of course we take feedback from the entire band and we give some space to the rhythm section to add to the whole. I take care of the lyrics 90% and take some suggestions from Markiz before we consider it done. 
Any plans to hit the road? 
We did 4 gigs in Poland this year already and plan for at least 3 more. No plans for getting abroad yet. 
What else is happening next in Doomster Reich’s world? 
We certainly are conjuring another portal to our world which means our next album. We’ll get it recorded this summer and hopefuly it will swallow you all next year. Other than that you can expect “Drug Magick” to be released on LP later this year by Bloodrock records from Italy. 
<a href="http://doomster-reich.bandcamp.com/album/drug-magick">Drug Magick by DOOMSTER REICH</a> 