T-Mobile Poland announced organisational changes to customer care Friday 23 March 2018 | 15:19 CET | News 
From 1 April, T-Mobile Poland will introduce organisational changes in customer care structures, both in business and private segment. In the business segment, the operator relies on synergies with T-Systems acquired in 2017. In the private segment, the operator will develop the areas of service and management of customer experience. 
In order to achieve a better synergy between the two companies, a new supervisory board of T-Systems will be established, including Andreas Maierhofer as chairman and Juraj Andras and Thomas Lips. With the appointment of the new supervisory board, Mariusz Chocholek will be nominated as the President of T-Systems Poland, who from 1 May will be the president of T-Systems combined with the current function of the TA/LA sales department director in T-Mobile. Alexander Bartz, CFO, and Dariusz Nawara, Chief Delivery Officer, will remain in the board. 
From May 1, the composition of the board will be completed by Pawel Czajkowski (Chief Sales Officer). Pawel gained experience in Poland and abroad, focusing primarily on developing sales aspects. Recently, as the Vice President of Asseco Data System, he was responsible for the Infrastructure Division. 
Besides, T-Systems Poland's CEO will be Mariusz Chocholek, who from 1 May will combine the responsibilities of the CEO of T-Systems with the current position of the director of sales department TA/LA (Top Accounts/ Large Accounts) in T‑Mobile. The management board will also include Alexander Bartz as CFO and Dariusz Nawara as chief delivery officer. From 1 May, the management board shall be completed by Pawel Czajkowski as chief sales officer, who worked as VP Asseco Data System, responsible for the Infrastructure Division. 
The changes aim to increase synergies in operation of both companies. Organisational units responsible for Top Accounts in T‑Mobile Poland will work in closer cooperation with T-Systems, in the preparation of offers and serving big business clients. 
The other departments of the B2B division will remain in the structure of T‑Mobile Poland and from 1 April they will report to the Director of B2B Division Piotr Markowski, directly reporting to the CEO of T‑Mobile Poland. 
Piotr Markowski joined T‑Mobile Poland in May 2016 as the Director of B2C Marketing . As the head of department he developed the strategy for product portfolio development in postpaid, first introducing the tariffs T and later the flat subscription T-Mobile No Limit, as well as successfully implementing development policy with external partners, as a result of which T-Mobile was the first operator to partner with Netflix. Markowski also introduced the home internet FMS. 
Piotr Bubak, former head of Post-Paid Marketing Department , will take over the responsibilities of Piotr Markowski as the Director of B2C Marketing Department. 
In the segment of individual customers, T-Mobile develops units responsible for optimising service and sales processes. As part of the Customer Experience Department, it will appoint teams dedicated to streamlining processes, simplifying documentation and unifying service standards. 
In addition, a new sales network management model will be implemented, which will enable regional managers to devote more time to store employees, and thus a better flow of information. 
T-Mobile will also strengthen the areas responsible for competitiveness in the area of offer preparation. For this purpose, it will create a separate unit coordinating the pricing strategy, as well as consolidate analytical teams, creating one cross-functional competence centre. This will allow to dynamically manage the product portfolio and develop it based on upcoming trends. 
The implemented changes are based mainly on internal transfers and flexible management of existing competences in the organisation. In individual cases, they require the acquisition of external specialists.  