LPTIC starts USD 1.7 bln plan to restore Libyan telecoms, Arabsat provides back-up Monday 26 March 2018 | 09:22 CET | News 
Libya's telecoms utility has been reunified after years divided by conflict, and is starting projects worth USD 1.7 billion to improve connections across a country hit by power cuts and infrastructure damage, Reuters reported. LPTIC, which owns Libyan mobile operators Libyana and Almadar as well as six other communications, property and postal subsidiaries, suspended investments in 2014 when fighting in Tripoli led to rival governments being set up in the capital and the east. 
LPTIC chairman Faisel Gergab moved east as a self-declared government in Tripoli appointed a rival chairman, but he returned to the capital in late 2016 after a UN-backed government was installed there. Gergab said they have been working hard in the past year to unify the institution under one umbrella. In January, LPTIC held general meetings with staff from all regions for the first time in four years, Gergab said. LPTIC is launching schemes to consolidate its six non-mobile subsidiaries into a single telecoms company, and to improve connectivity and access to services nationwide. 
These include a six-year "last mile" project to ensure fast connections to commercial and residential areas through Libya's 15,000 km fibre-optic network, and mobiles projects for Libyana and Almadar. LPTIC signed a contract worth around USD 80 million with Saudi-based Arabsat in February for the provision of satellite back-up services, as well as services for border control and oil facilities over a period of fifteen years, Gergab said. 
Mobile communications in Libya have suffered in recent years from power cuts and infrastructure damage caused by unauthorised construction, sabotage and theft. The satellite project will take about eighteen months to complete, Gergab said, and LPTIC companies have brought in new equipment including batteries and generators to deal with power cuts expected this summer. 
Libya remains politically divided, with the internationally recognised government in Tripoli opposed by factions in the east and still struggling to agree and secure funding for state-run companies and institutions. Gergab said LPTIC is at an advantage because it operates more independently than other major state holdings, paying taxes and licence fees but otherwise retaining its revenues.  