Home / policy / The government chose the easiest way The government chose the easiest way 13 hours ago policy 2 Views 
The increase in the personal income tax in conditions when real incomes are falling four years in a row, it cannot be right, says the economist Igor Nikolayev. 
In the Kremlin confirmed media reports that the Russian government is one of the first meetings after the presidential election, among other measures discussed was the possibility of increasing tax rates on incomes of physical persons (NDFL) from 13 to 15 percent (with the introduction of non-taxable minimum). Show completely… 
Of what related the intention of the Cabinet of Ministers and as this measure, if adopted, will affect the Russians, the observer of “Rosbalt” said the Director of the Institute of strategic analysis Igor Nikolaev. 
— What do you think caused today to life the idea of raising the income tax on individuals? 
— As you know, we were promised increased spending on education and health. In the presidential message such encouraging words sounded, although it was dedicated to the different warheads and so on… 
— What are the chances that spending on social programs really increase? 
After it became apparent that this decision (to increase the personal income tax), at least for discussion, it became clear that the chances that it will be taken large enough. But it turns out that all this extra spending on health and education will be funded at our expense. 
Personal income tax as the tax is not Federal, but local. Spending on education and health in the budgets of the regions significant. At the expense of something they should be funded, and personal income tax administreres well. The question price — about 600 billion rubles. This is something that will be also obtained by increasing the income tax by two percentage points. 
— This is enough for normal financing of the social sphere? 
Is a substantial amount of money. Due to them can make a decent raise funding for education and health. Another thing is that there is no guarantee that these funds will be used for this purpose. The funds that we pay in personal income tax, “not painted”. It’s not the money of some trust funds. Here the principle is that they go into a common pot, and more (distributed) depending on what kind of decision power on what and how much should be financed. 
Therefore, there is no guarantee that these funds reach these expenditures, while regional budgets, as has been said, a significant amount is spent for this purpose. 
— How do you assess this very measure — the increase in income tax to 15%? 
— Generally, in my opinion, it is wrong. When four consecutive years, real incomes fell, we are now going to raise personal income tax! And then also the retirement age going to increase. Notice that only the income growth in this Feb gives some small hope of improving human well-being. However, we understand what caused the February growth by more than four per cent of the presidential elections and the increase in public sector wages. 
The approach to the solution of this problem is wrong. First, real incomes should start to grow steadily. In the present situation to raise the income tax is wrong. Dynamics of incomes of the population should be completely different, the poverty situation in the country (recall that we have according to official data, 20 million poor) should also be different. Only then such problems can start to discuss. 
— And in principle the income tax increase you think is right? 
— This is not the correct solution. A progressive tax scale that you need, and not improving overall personal income tax rate. The increase in total income tax rate is the solution of the question at the expense of all, but not at the expense of the most wealthy citizens. See also: The results of the elections to the state Duma: Russia has political "stress test" 
— And we understand that the poor will feel the increase personal income tax by 2% more likely, and the rich that do not particularly notice… 
— Of course! For the poor the two percentage point much more significant than for the rich. Therefore, this measure will hit the poor, the rich, the middle class will be a bright proof that the government is not going to impose additional taxes on the rich, who did not speak to that “it will affect everyone.” By the way, I’m a year ago when there was talk about a progressive scale, predicted that it would end like this. Talk, talk, and then take and raise the overall tax rate. 
In addition, it is necessary to understand that the rich do not live on one salary. For example, the entrepreneur often meets those or other requirements not at the expense of their funds, but at the expense of the company. It is the employee satisfies the same personal needs, say, a car allowance or the purchase of furniture, due to his salary. A businessman often “hangs” these costs on the firm. Only this point shows that the rich by increasing income tax is unlikely to greatly hurt. 
In addition, it is unclear whether the income from dividends. This theme did not rise… 
— Do I understand correctly that raising the personal income tax, the government recognizes that other sources of cash income he not? 
— It seems to me that the government of such a step rather acknowledges that it is ready to go for the simplest, most guaranteed path, so it is easier. Why did he have something else up? © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share