zoom The Gumusut Kakap platform. Image source: Shell 
Oilfield services provider TechnipFMC has won a trio of integrated engineering, procurement, construction, and installation (iEPCI) offshore contracts. 
TechnipFMC said on Monday that three iEPCI deals would be executed offshore Israel, Malaysia, and in the Gulf of Mexico. 
Karish field 
The company won an iEPCI contract from Energean Oil & Gas for the Karish full field development, located offshore Israel at a water depth of 1,750 meters. 
The execution of this contract covers the design, procurement, construction and installation of the complete subsea system, a floating production storage and offloading unit (FPSO) designed to allow the subsequent tie-back of the Tanin field, the pipeline system, and the onshore pipeline and valve station at the receiving station. 
Hallvard Hasselknippe , president of TechnipFMC’s subsea business, said: “This award […] highlights our unique ability to combine a fully integrated field development encompassing both the entire subsea and FPSO scope. We are honored that Energean Oil & Gas has embraced this new way of doing business, engaging with us early through an integrated FEED study and directly awarding the full project scope through an integrated EPCI model.” 
Last week , Energean approved the final investment decision to proceed with the $1.6 billion Karish & Tanin development project. 

Gumusut-Kakap Phase 2 
TechnipFMC was awarded a contract by Sabah Shell Petroleum Company for the delivery and installation of subsea equipment including umbilicals, flowlines, and the subsea production system for the Gumusut-Kakap Phase 2 Project. 
Hasselknippe, added: “We are extremely honored to have been awarded this project by Sabah Shell Petroleum. This award demonstrates the added value of our unique integrated offering and brings TechnipFMC’s integrated model to the Asia Pacific region.” 
The Gumusut-Kakap field is located in waters up to 3,900 feet deep offshore Malaysia. The platform on the field has an annual peak oil production of around 148,000 barrels a day. 

Who Dat field 
The company’s third deal was for work on the Who Dat field in the Gulf of Mexico awarded by LLOG Exploration. This award includes the delivery and installation of a multiphase pumping system, including a manifold, umbilical termination assembly, power umbilical, jumper and topside control equipment 
The 2MW 10ksi multiphase pump station is optimized for the high gas content in the field. The company said that the station leveraged field-proven pump hydraulics with the company’s high-speed permanent magnetic motor technology and subsea system design, providing operational flexibility in subsea boosting. 
LLOG Exploration’s Who Dat field is located in the Mississippi Canyon blocks of the Gulf of Mexico in 945 meters of water. First production of the field was achieved in December 2011. 
Offshore Energy Today Staff