Pakistanis Personal Data Stolen through PM Laptop Scheme By tweet 
There have been issues of data security and privacy going on worldwide, where companies have stolen personal information of user illegally. Recently Facebook has been accused of breaching data of 50 million Facebook users that played a major role in the US Elections 2016 . Also read: WhatsApp CoFOunder asks you to Delete Facebook 
Now another news has popped up and it speaks about the data breach in Pakistan. Pakistan Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif used public money to give laptops to the youth of Pakistan and then through them he has stolen data of those youngsters. 
EurAsiaFuture.com is the source that revealed about Cambridge Analytica and how it has invaded user privacy before the story became mainstream. Now the same source is claiming that Cambridge Analytica stole data of the young Pakistani students through an operating system that was installed in the laptops that were given to university students under PM’s laptop scheme. 
It is pertinent to mention here that it is claimed that the ex-PM of Pakistan Mr. Nawaz Sharif hired Cambridge Analytica to effect Pakistani voters as well. 
The laptop scheme by Nawaz Sharif gave laptops in 109 universities of Pakistan to thousands of students. The scheme was generally appreciated but no ulterior motive was even considered. It was just thought that the PML-N government wants to attract youth towards their party. 
It was in FY 2013 that the scheme was announced and it became operational from August 2013 with the help of Punjab Government. 
Cambridge Analytica is also rumored to have played a part in Brexit by influencing the voters. It is a consulting firm that is known to collect data through social media and then divide it into segments for its respective clients. 
Furthermore, it is not necessary that Cambridge Analytica was just serving Nawaz Sharif in Pakistan, it might have multiple clients. For instance, the firm has also worked Strategic Communication Laboratories Group that operated for British Ministry of Defense. Also, it is connected with NATO as well. So it might have different diverse agendas in Pakistan. 
All we can say is, let us be very careful while sharing data on social media sites as there is no privacy anymore. TAGS 