-USB flash drives are second most dangerous source of cyber-threats -Mini-terminal Malware Cleaner detects "BadUSB" threats that are undetectable with traditional anti-virus software 
Seventy percent of employees use USB flash drives from outside the company and connect them to the company network, and 68 percent take no precautions before inserting them into their work computer (1) 
USB flash drives, whether they are new or used, are major sources of infection for company IT systems. They are in widespread use, particularly in certain sectors such as in industry, education and healthcare, both for sharing documents and for updating software. 
Available until now as a fixed 70kg booth or as a software version installed on computers, the Malware Cleaner solution is now available in a “mini-terminal” version. Thanks to this cheaper, mobile version, businesses can facilitate the decontamination of users’ USB flash drives. This portable version can be found at a reception desk, in meeting rooms or even shared between different sites as needed. 
Malware Cleaner simultaneously uses five anti-virus search engines to optimize and combine the extent and performance of detection. These search engines are automatically updated on a daily basis when the terminal is connected to the internet via the network or using 4G. It also has an embedded detection engine for 
In addition, Malware Cleaner includes an admin platform to remotely manage the terminals. This allows to check they are running accurately and being updated, to receive usage statistics in real-time, find out the number of infected files and the types of attack detected. All this precious information helps to improve the company’s cybersecurity. 
“ USB flash drives are a real danger for IT security within companies. Even if these attacks are more complicated to set up than attacks by e-mail, for example, they are nevertheless to be feared. Introducing USB flash drives into the heart of the company makes it possible to spread malicious code, paralyze machines, destroy sensitive data and even workstations. Ransomware can be installed on an industrial system simply by inserting a USB flash drive, with no need for the user to do anything at all Never connect a USB flash drive of unknown origin to a workstation Renew employees’ USB flash drives to avoid the propagation of malware Provide employees with USB flash drives to prevent the use of external equipment Systematically check USB flash drives when they have been connected to an unsecured environment 

Learn more at www.orange-business.com or follow us on LinkedIn, Twitter and our blogs. 
Orange and any other Orange product or service names included in this material are trademarks of Orange or Orange Brand Services Limited. 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/6/221822/221822-1.png )