25 March 2018, 15:34 CTO regime lifted in Dagestani Andi village 
The counterterrorist operation (CTO) regime in the village of Andi, Botlikh District of Dagestan, where a militant was killed on March 24, has been cancelled, the Russian National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) has stated. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that the above village was put under the CTO regime at 3:40 p.m. Moscow time on March 24. Then, law enforcers reported about the murder of a member of the "Islamic State" (IS) , a terrorist organization banned in Russia by the court. 
"By the decision of the commander of the operative headquarters, at 2:00 p.m. (Moscow time) on March 25, the CTO regime was cancelled within the administrative borders of the Andi village of the Botlikh District," the "Interfax" quotes its NAC's source in the republic. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   All news; Conflicts; Dagestan; North-Caucasian Federal District All news 
The Azerbaijani movement "Muslim Unity" has called on its supporters to boycott the upcoming presidential election in Azerbaijan. March 26, 2018 20:34 
Tonight, Valery Tuaev was detained during his solo picket with a poster in the square near the Sochi administration. The activist tried to draw attention to the unfair presidential election in Russia. March 26, 2018 19:47 
After the video of Kadyrov with Shaa Turlaev, law enforcers should go to Chechnya, detain the latter and check the actions of the head of Chechnya himself, the lawyers Tumas Misakyan and Vadim Prokhorov have stated. March 26, 2018 16:40 Miners call on President Putin to solve Gukovo problems 
Today, in Gukovo, 74 miners have gathered for a new picket in front of the House of Culture for the "Rostovskaya" mine. They have announced that they have not yet got the coal promised by the local authorities and reported the problems with the purchase of food. March 26, 2018 16:18 Buyers of alcoholic drinks searched again, residents of Grozny report 
In Grozny, law enforcers have resumed searching buyers of alcoholic drinks at exit from a single hypermarket, which legally sells alcohol beverages. An earlier break in searches can be explained by a conflict between the local and federal law enforcement bodies, local residents report. TOPICS OF THE DAY