25 March 2018, 16:50 Relatives of Syrian Circassian woman reject money raised for her treatment 
Circassian activists from Kabardino-Balkaria and other Russian regions have raised money for treatment of Dina Tamukh, a Syrian resident, in Russia, but her transportation became impossible due to the deterioration of her health condition. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that in February, social network users launched a fundraising campaign for the treatment of Dina Tamukh , who suffers from a cancer disease. She told that she needed an expensive treatment at the proton therapy centre of in Obninsk. 
The necessary amount was raised by early March; however Dina Tamukh's health condition deteriorated sharply. 
Valery Khatazhukov, the head of the Kabardino-Balkarian Human Rights Centre, and Circassian activists decided to give the raised money – almost 113,000 roubles, or USD 1950 – to Dina's relatives, but her sister-in-law, who cares for her, refused to take the money that had been sent via the Circassian Diaspora of Damascus. 
"The patient's condition is very grave; she is unconscious [...] Dina's sister-in-law asked to convey huge thanks to all those, who took part in the fundraising, but flatly refused to take the money, explaining this decision by the gravity of Dina's condition and the impossibility of her transportation. She asked to give the money to some more needy family," Olga Begret, a co-founder of the "Ochag" (Hearth) Help Fund to Compatriots, wrote on the Facebook. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   All news; Society; Conflicts; North-Caucasian Federal District; Kabardino-Balkaria All news Two defendants accused of attacking "Caucasian Knot" correspondent to be jailed 
Today, in Rostov-on-Don, the court has recognized four defendants guilty of involvement in the beating of Vladislav Ryazantsev, a "Caucasian Knot" correspondent. Two of them were sentenced to imprisonment, while the rest were sentenced to punishment not related to deprivation of liberty. March 26, 2018 11:11 
Today, officials from the press service for the South Military District of Russia have reported that units of the military police are to be sent to the military base in Gyumri. Their task will be to maintain military discipline. March 26, 2018 08:23 
In 2016-2018, in Chechnya, at least 11 people were brought to administrative responsibility for dissemination of banned songs of Chechen bard Timur Mutsuraev.   "Caucasian Knot". March 26, 2018 02:31 
In Ingushetia, Khamzat Chumakov, Imam of the Nasyr-Kort mosque, has announced his resignation. Believers of the mosque have not agreed with the Khamzat Chumakov's decision and asked him to take leave and then return to work. March 26, 2018 00:57 On March 19-25, 2018, six persons fell victim to armed conflict in Northern Caucasus 
During the week of March 19-25, 2018, at least seven persons fell victim to the armed conflict in Northern Caucasus. Of them, six were killed and one was injured.   "Caucasian Knot" based on its own materials and information from other open sources. TOPICS OF THE DAY