25 March 2018, 14:52 Detained manager of "Leogrand" Hotel denies accusations 
Giorgi Mikeladze, detained within the case of the "Leogrand" Hotel, has stated that he had been unreasonably persecuted. According to his advocate, Mikeladze had no relation to the boiler room, where the fire broke out and killed 11 persons. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that on March 23 two employees of the "Leogrand" Hotel in Batumi were detained within the fire case, in which over 30 people suffered. One of the detainees is a Turkish citizen, the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIA) has stated. 
The fire in the Batumi "Leogrand" Hotel occurred in the evening on November 24, 2017 . According to the Georgian police, 11 people perished and 21 others were hospitalized. 
Giorgi Mikeladze has refused to plead guilty of the tragedy, while his colleague, a citizen of Turkey, preferred to use the right of keeping silent, the "InterPressNews" has reported today citing Paata Bolkvadze, a Mikeladze's advocate, who has added that at the hotel his client was in charge of the technical warehouse, while the fire occurred in the boiler room, which was outside Mikeladze's responsibilities. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   All news; Incidents; Crime; Georgia; South Caucasus All news 
The Azerbaijani movement "Muslim Unity" has called on its supporters to boycott the upcoming presidential election in Azerbaijan. March 26, 2018 20:34 
Tonight, Valery Tuaev was detained during his solo picket with a poster in the square near the Sochi administration. The activist tried to draw attention to the unfair presidential election in Russia. March 26, 2018 19:47 
After the video of Kadyrov with Shaa Turlaev, law enforcers should go to Chechnya, detain the latter and check the actions of the head of Chechnya himself, the lawyers Tumas Misakyan and Vadim Prokhorov have stated. March 26, 2018 16:40 Miners call on President Putin to solve Gukovo problems 
Today, in Gukovo, 74 miners have gathered for a new picket in front of the House of Culture for the "Rostovskaya" mine. They have announced that they have not yet got the coal promised by the local authorities and reported the problems with the purchase of food. March 26, 2018 16:18 Buyers of alcoholic drinks searched again, residents of Grozny report 
In Grozny, law enforcers have resumed searching buyers of alcoholic drinks at exit from a single hypermarket, which legally sells alcohol beverages. An earlier break in searches can be explained by a conflict between the local and federal law enforcement bodies, local residents report. TOPICS OF THE DAY