25 March 2018, 07:54 Ukrainian citizen tells Consul about torture in Rostov-on-Don 
Alexei Sizonovich, a citizen of Ukraine, convicted on charges of plotting a terror act in the Rostov Region, told the Ukrainian Consul about the torture he was subjected to in Rostov-on-Don. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that on July 31, 2017, the North-Caucasian District Military Court in Rostov-on-Don sentenced the 61-year-old Alexei Sizonovich to 12 years in a high security colony and a fine . 
Diana Ivanova, the Ukrainian Consul in Novosibirsk, has met Alexei Sizonovich for the first time since his detention. According to her story, Alexei complained his health problems as a result of torture, applied to him in Rostov-on-Don. 
"Alexei told me that when he was in Rostov-on-Don, he was severely beaten up; so severely that twice he was in the state of clinical death. He said that he had been tortured differently, including with electric current," the Ukrainian Service of Radio Liberty quotes Ms Ivanova as saying on March 24. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   All news; Crime; Society; Rostov region; South Federal District All news 
The Azerbaijani movement "Muslim Unity" has called on its supporters to boycott the upcoming presidential election in Azerbaijan. March 26, 2018 20:34 
Tonight, Valery Tuaev was detained during his solo picket with a poster in the square near the Sochi administration. The activist tried to draw attention to the unfair presidential election in Russia. March 26, 2018 19:47 
After the video of Kadyrov with Shaa Turlaev, law enforcers should go to Chechnya, detain the latter and check the actions of the head of Chechnya himself, the lawyers Tumas Misakyan and Vadim Prokhorov have stated. March 26, 2018 16:40 Miners call on President Putin to solve Gukovo problems 
Today, in Gukovo, 74 miners have gathered for a new picket in front of the House of Culture for the "Rostovskaya" mine. They have announced that they have not yet got the coal promised by the local authorities and reported the problems with the purchase of food. March 26, 2018 16:18 Buyers of alcoholic drinks searched again, residents of Grozny report 
In Grozny, law enforcers have resumed searching buyers of alcoholic drinks at exit from a single hypermarket, which legally sells alcohol beverages. An earlier break in searches can be explained by a conflict between the local and federal law enforcement bodies, local residents report. TOPICS OF THE DAY