8 Vital Email Marketing Tips for a Successful Hospitality Industry Campaign By Gloria Kopp , Head of Digital Marketing Department at Eliteassignmenthelp 
Comments 
Email marketing is a hugely beneficial marketing tactic if implemented in the right way. For many businesses, the main focus is on creating new content, new opportunities and getting new customers to come in but this doesn't have to be the case. 
In fact, it's far easier to market your business to a subscriber or existing customer than it is to seek out new ones who you'll need to convince to trust your business. To give you a helping hand on how email marketing can benefit your hospitality business here are eight essential tips you need to know. Welcome Emails 
One of the most important emails that your customers will be expecting after they give you their email address is a welcome email stating that you're happy to have them become a part of your mailing list. 
You'll want to make sure that you're setting a good first impression, so use tools like State of Writing and Grammarix to ensure perfect grammar in your emails. Example 
Check out this email by Hotel Indigo, welcoming the customer to their business while laying out everything they have to offer so the customer can get started straight away. Customer Service/Support is Key 
No matter what kind of hospitality business you're in, the level of customer support that you offer can't just finish when your customer leaves the premises. 
By setting up automated marketing triggers, such as the ones found in solutions like MailChimp and Get Response, you can directly contact your customers after their experience either telling them 'thank you for their custom', asking for feedback or more information about their experience. Example 
One of the best ways to use email marketing is for customer feedback about heir experience with your business. You want to make sure that you're not too pushy with your asking, just asking to make sure that they had a great time and if there was anything you can do to improve. Check out this email by Javelin for more information. Not Just Products & Services 
The key thing to remember in the hospitality business is that you're not just selling products and services to people, you're selling experiences, good times and memories so this is a mindset that should be nurtured within your email marketing campaign. 
Within your emails, be sure to promote over time what kind of business you are, what you stand for and any other special events and experiences that your customers can enjoy, helping to build your regular customer base and your customer loyalty. 
Get creative with these emails by using email copywriting services to generate the best content using services like Academized and Cite It In . Example 
Check out this example of a hospitality email by GreenBank. Within this email, they've made sure to advertise the fact that everything in place for their customer's visit while stating some of the key experience and options that are available to them to make their experience even better. A Dedicated Membership & Reward System 
This depends on what kind of hospitality business you're running but setting up an online system where your members can collect points or engaging in a membership is a great way to improve your customer loyalty rates and to get people to return. 
Using an email marketing campaign, you can easier keep on top of these memberships, providing your customers with exclusive content and making sure they have all the information they need to be a happy customer. 
You can use tools and services like Target Hero and Mad Mimi to set up the triggers for these emails in the right places and times. Example 
As you can see from this example from Hilton, the email is sharing content with its exclusive subscribers as well as sharing an exclusive discount code for money off their next purchase and information on bonus point collections for their members. Promoting Your Business Events 
As a hospitality establishment or venue, there are going to be times where you'll be hosting events, special themed nights and other similar situations. You can streamline your processes by adding automated triggers to when people buy tickets for these events, as well as sharing information periodically about the event, so everybody is on the same page. 
Don't forget to create engaging subject lines for these emails using headline tools like as Paper Fellows and Easy Word Count . Example 
Here's an example of a great way to advertise a sales event within your hospitality business by Premier Inn. As you can see, it's a week-long sale with discounted rooms, as well as all the information the customer could need. Educating Customers in the Service 
As a hospitality service, or even in the tourism industry, you want to make sure that your customers are excited about the experience that they are going to have with your business. 
For this, you can use email marketing tactics to send periodic emails that get them excited about their upcoming experience. Example 
Check out this example from the 1896 Brewery Company. Within this email, the company describe to the customer the best beers that they have on offer this month which could be translated into your business as a new menu, new menu items or special offers for that month. Creating a Better Experience 
One of the most effective ways that a hospitality business can connect with their customers is by taking note of anniversary and birthday dates of their customers. If you can acquire this information, you'll be able to put yourself directly into the minds of your customers before they even think about needing your services. 
You'll need to remember to proofread these emails, so they are perfect and don't harm your reputation and credibility as a business. You can make this easy by using tools like Academadvisor and Ukwritings . Example 
In this example by Omni Hotels, you can see that they give their customers a 15% discount for their birthday, the information they would have acquired through a previous transaction. Cart Abandonment Emails 
Although much rarer in the hospitality industry, there will still be instances where people will leave your website mid-way through booking. Since you've got email marketing triggers to set up, why not set up a reminder to these customers so you can secure these sales or bookings. Example 
Here's a great example by Millennium Hotels who remind their customers that they are mid-way through a booking and they can continue easily. 
As you can see, there is a tonne of opportunities out there for you to explore when it comes to email marketing for your hospitality business. Just get creative, think outside the box create as many opportunities as you can. 
Contact 