Society March 26, 2018 
The six-year-old Dutch football mascot who stuck her tongue out for the cameras when Oranje were presented to the crowd ahead of Friday’s friendly against England was dared to do it by her teachers. 
‘Teacher Sharon and teacher Jan, said “stick your tongue out when you are on tv” so I thought, I’ll just do it,’ Puck told the AD. 
Puck and her sister Dejé , who come from Berkel en Rodenrijs near Delft, were both in the mascot line-up and were told to stand up straight with their hands behind their backs during the national anthem. 
Dejé followed the rules, but Puck stuck her tongue out at the camera and made what she said is a peace sign. ‘I always do that on photos,’ she told the paper. 
‘I think Memphis Depay (the player who Puck accompanied) thought I was cool because he said “that is my mate Puck”,’ the girl said. 
Her parents told the paper they were shocked by the negative reactions from Britain, triggered by the fact the girl’s peace sign was the wrong way round which is considered extremely offensive there. 
However, one commentator on Twitter said the girl had done nothing wrong. ‘Look what England fans have been doing in Amsterdam. Can’t compare,’ said Elgan Rhys Jones, referring to the arrest of over 100 fans who caused havoc in the city’s red light districht. Visualising the proud parents and grandparents ‍♂️‍♀️ waiting in anticipation to see this Dutch mascot to be on the TV  then this  #NEDENG pic.twitter.com/NWYPcjfTbH 
— Simon Walker  (@SimonGW33) March 23, 2018 I feel very passionate about defending the mascot girl for some reason. She wasn’t being offensive, she was just doing what’s a peace sign or a way to say hello in The Netherlands. It’s literally only offensive in the UK. Get off your tits. She was just being silly. #NEDENG Haha @ITVSport commentator not happy with the behaviour of the Netherlands mascot during the anthem. The mascot did nothing wrong. Look what the England fans have been doing in Amsterdam!! Can’t compare. #Itv 
— Elgan Rhys Jones (@ElganRhys28) March 23, 2018 Features 