27 mrt 2018 om 07:00 views: 7.684 
Het is druk achter de schermen: China steps up push to avert looming US trade war https://t.co/ytcKREomYf — Financial Times (@FinancialTimes) 26 maart 2018 
In mei al, zou China echt? Dan krijgt de handelsoorlog een onverwachte wending. Copypaste: Chinese officials are rushing to finalise new regulations by May that will allow foreign financial groups to take majority stakes in securities companies as they seek to avert a looming trade war with the US. Beijing has also offered to buy more semiconductors from the US by diverting some purchases from South Korean and Taiwan manufacturers, in an effort to help reduce annual $375bn merchandise trade surplus with the US. 
Niemand minder dan Tesla's Elon Musk die deze maand simpel uiteen zette dat China inderdaad huiswerk heeft: For example, an American car going to China pays 25% import duty, but a Chinese car coming to the US only pays 2.5%, a tenfold difference — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) 8 maart 2018 Also, no US auto company is allowed to own even 50% of their own factory in China, but there are five 100% China-owned EV auto companies in the US — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) 8 maart 2018 
Eind goed, al goed? U leest overal hoe een handelsoorlog tussen vooral VS en China de wereldhandel en economie kan raken. Een scenario waarin China haar deuren opent en de hele wereld juist kan profiteren, heb ik nog niet gelezen. To be clear, I think a fair outcome for all is quite likely. China has already shown a willingness to open their markets and I believe they will do the right thing. — Elon Musk (@elonmusk) 9 maart 2018 
Denk er maar over na. Of is dit gewoon lekkerder? 'Economic crisis' and 'chaos': Nobel-winner Shiller issues a warning on Trump's trade offensive https://t.co/7g08LdHF7i — CNBC (@CNBC) 26 maart 2018 
Of houdt u gewoon meer van inpending doom ? Surging trade tensions between the U.S. and China has prompted comparisons to American combativeness toward Japan that preceded the 1987 equity meltdown https://t.co/aDvAX9pJku pic.twitter.com/Npf7PueVdg