ComReg survey finds 16% of telecom consumers plan to churn in next year Monday 26 March 2018 | 11:03 CET | News 
The vast majority of Irish consumers and SMEs are satisfied with their telecommunications providers. However, 16 percent of consumers said they are likely to switch their telecommunications bundle from their existing service provider in the next 12 months, a survey by regulator ComReg found. Its annual research found that 38 percent of those wanting to change provider expect they can save at least 5 percent by switching. 
The survey also found significant differences in the use of telecom services between urban and rural consumers. This is particularly evident for broadband, with 73 percent of urban respondents having fixed broadband compared to only 58 percent of those from rural areas. Furthermore, half of households in rural areas use the DTT service Saorview, compared with just a quarter in urban areas. 
ComReg said the survey found consumers using new services, such as smart TVs and streaming, but also continued use of traditional services. More than two out of every five households say they use Netflix, but 95 percent of those with streaming services said they still watch live TV services, and 44 percent said that the amount of live TV they view is unchanged. While only 29 percent of households have a smart TV, the majority (56%) expect that they will own one within five years. 
In the six months prior to the survey, 3 percent of respondents used a public phone box, 17 percent used a printed phone book, 28 percent of SMEs sent or received a fax, and 15 percent of consumers sent or received a text. Nearly a third of those using messaging apps (31%) said they still send the same number of text messages. 
Over 1,500 Irish consumers and 500 SMEs were interviewed about their use and experiences of telecommunications in Ireland by Ipsos MORI for the survey. Free Headlines in your E-mail 
Every day we send out a free e-mail with the most important headlines of the last 24 hours.