Home / policy / 2018 elections: a Pyrrhic victory for Putin 2018 elections: a Pyrrhic victory for Putin 20 mins ago policy 2 Views 
So, after processing 99% of final reports the current head of state Vladimir Putin scored 76,65% of the vote, Paul Grudinin — of 11.82%, Vladimir Zhirinovsky — 5,68%, Ksenia Sobchak — 1,66%. It follows from the data of the CEC. 
And most of all rejoice at the victory of Putin is a huge bureaucratic army. You can tell these people have passed the examination. They performed the installation according to the results of the elections, which the first Deputy head of the presidential administration Sergei Kiriyenko announced in December 2016, at a training seminar for Vice-governors on internal politics. Kiriyenko then, we recall, formulated the “rule 70/70/50”: the main candidate “should win with a very high turnout — 70%”, with a score of 70%, for it should vote not less than half of voters came to the polls. 
The turnout average for the country note made 67,47% after treatment of 99.83% of the ballots. In the Central regions of Russia, the turnout was lower than in 2012, but “for” Putin, in percentage terms, received more votes. An illustrative example of Moscow region, the turnout was 56,46%, Putin — 74,49%, whereas in the 2012 election figures were 61,46% 56,85%, respectively. 
In practice, this means that by hook or by crook on sites “herded” Putin’s electorate, and he predictably supported the incumbent head of state. Many of those who in 2012 voted for other candidates, this time the elections did not go. 
Local administration to increase turnout acted on the brink of a foul. At least in one school near Moscow, and in one Moscow school class teachers passed — through the children — a requirement for parents to report via text message, they voted or not. As reported March 18, one of the teachers, is supposedly obliged to do “all head teachers of schools” and “shake every hour”. 
In St. Petersburg the representatives of management companies went from door to door, and swore at those who have not voted because they allegedly “spoil the housing Department reporting”. 
But benefited from the triumph of Putin, again, not the teachers and not the superintendent. And the numerous bureaucrats, who expect another six years to sit quietly in their seats doing nothing, nothing to solve and profit from. However, this calculation may not be justified. 
According to the sociologist “Levada-center” Denis Volkov (“Levada-center”, we note, has the status of a foreign agent), “the decline of public optimism could begin in the spring, and it’s not clear whether the authorities have the resources to securely and permanently reverse the trend in late 2017 negative trends”. “If they are not found, already in 2-3 years after the elections, the political system that now seems stable, may face lack of public support”, — predicts the wolves. See also: Putin is giving Kiev a chance 
In other words, Putin’s victory does not guarantee lung six years of rule. This last term allowed by the current head of state by the Constitution. So, ahead of any transfer of power to a successor, or redrawing of the Constitution. Any of these scenarios means one thing — instability. 
We do not know any of the new composition of the Cabinet nor of the impending reshuffle in the higher echelons of power, and while I can’t judge, who benefited from the victory of Vladimir Putin, — said the President of the Union of entrepreneurs and tenants of Russia Andrei Bunich. — In addition, I believe that elections do not contribute anything fundamentally new in our political life, because all knew what the outcome would be. Meanwhile, the main challenges are still ahead. 
It is an economic problem that is only growing, and the government has no plans how to solve them. In addition, the deteriorating international situation, and hope it will change for the better is almost not necessary. This means, sources, thanks to which the Russian government somehow existed before — in the framework of international trade and international Finance, — will either overlap or be exhausted. 
Again, the problems begin. A lot of the negative can still happen, and a good result for Putin in the election that is absolutely not insures. 
It is symbolic that almost to the day — March 17, 1991 — a referendum was held on preserving the Soviet Union. As we know, there was also very high support. For the preservation of the Soviet Union spoke 76,43%. As you can see, even the percent of votes received by symbolically coincide with the current election. 
So, the Soviet Union, this support is not much help. Although at the time it seemed that his fate is sealed. Overall, in the history of many instances when good political outcome does not insure against further surprises. 
“SP”: — But the top bureaucracy, judging by the pictures TV, radiates joy and confidence in the future… 
— I think this is largely feigned joy. They also are not sure of their fate, and understand: it is unknown how the situation will develop. In fact, the pie becomes smaller, so from the feeders will have to pull out more people. Between the bureaucrats, I believe, there will be bickering, and who wins and loses remains to be seen. 
“SP”: — the “Levada-centre” States that “in 2-3 years after the elections, the political system that now seems stable, may face lack of public support”. This is a realistic forecast? 
— If the economic reform program and will not be accepted, or she will be reduced to raise the retirement age, cuts in social benefits and commercialization of various services — public support for the current government will undoubtedly begin to decline sharply. People will just feel cheated. See also: Putin rarely gives in to pressure and now is not lost to the liberals 
Moreover, changes in the world actualize demands a radical restructuring of the economy on a new basis. Only this will allow Russia to exist in the present reality. And if the government did fail to offer in this area, no figures support it in the future to save will not. 
In summary, the present victory of the incumbent can be rather shaky Foundation for further long reign. 
“SP”: — What do you expect from Putin? 
— All depends on how it will be used by Putin received a mandate of trust, and in the near future, what they will proposed measures and solutions. It is necessary to understand the changes in Russia is not just overdue, they in many cases frankly overdue. 
Makes no sense to list all the negative tendencies that have accumulated. But one thing is clear: without a new economic platform of Russia can not do. 
While the power in the solution of fundamental problems, unfortunately, is trying to do is simple: somewhere to cut somewhere to be pressed down. But such half-measures, by and large, nothing. To continue this line, in my opinion, Putin is simply unrealistic. 
— Putin has given carte Blanche not only on continuation of its policy, but also on changes that are deemed necessary to make, — the political scientist, Director of Institute of political studies Sergei Markov. — So early to say win or not from this current bureaucratic team. Maybe, just lost because the head of state is going to change it. 
Another question that Putin’s victory was won the major structures involved in the production and export of resources. Plus the largest property owners, including those who are called oligarchs. They, in my opinion, the changes just will not touch. 
In fact, the situation is ambivalent. On the one hand, experts note the apparent inertia of the Board, suggesting that drastic changes will not. On the other — before Putin’s task for six years to achieve major changes in the economy, which appear to be satisfactory, and in the social sphere, which causes dissatisfaction. Finally, the public is outraged by the current bureaucracy, with its glaring corruption style. 
Yes, Putin is received sverhtverdye from citizens, which allows him to seriously change the system of government. In particular, to make the mass personal replacement. But will it or not — today nobody knows. © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share