by businesswireindia.com March 26, 2018 Business Wire India Bajaj Finance Ltd., the lending arm of Bajaj Finserv, has announced special financing option on air conditioners (ACs) and refrigerators this summer. Customer buying these products can avail up to 100% finance not only on these products but also on the cost of installation of ACs and stabilizer for refrigerator. All this with Bajaj Finserv EMI Network on no-cost EMIs. The 100% finance offer is available on refrigerators split and window AC's of leading brands like Bluestar, Micromax, Carrier, Mitashi, Cruise Mitsubishi Electric, Daikin, Onida, ETA (O General), Panasonic, Godrej, Philips Electrolux (PE), Haier, Samsung, Hitachi, Vestar, IFB, Intex, Voltas, LG, Whirlpool and Lloyd. The customer planning to purchase an air conditioner or refrigerator can avail this special offer is available till April 15 , 2018. The offer can be availed at 13000+ partner retail stores like Vijay Sales, Bajaj Electronic, Khosla Electronics, Great Eastern Trading Co, Pai International, Vasanth & Co, Sargam Electronics, Sono Vision, CPR Distributors, Croma and Reliance Digital. This special offer can be availed by both existing and new customers of Bajaj Finserv. New customers can connect with the Bajaj Finserv executive at the store to submit their documents & avail the finance option instantly. Existing holders of Bajaj Finserv EMI Network Card can transact using their card. The Bajaj Finserv ‘No Cost EMI' option is a monthly installment-based payment scheme with no hidden costs and most importantly, easy payments. Additionally, Bajaj Finserv customers can choose to foreclose their loan anytime without any extra charges and can also choose the tenor most suitable to them and repay the cost on their own terms. This way, customers don't have to worry about immediate payments or worry about exceeding their budget while shopping for their consumer durable requirements. For more details on the ‘AC' campaign, visit: https://www.bajajfinserv.in/emi-network-ac-air-conditioners Source: Businesswire