19 March 2018, 05:26 Volgograd Communists call elections falsified 
Observers from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) have filed "dozens of complaints" following the results of the voting at the presidential election. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that on March 18, the voting took place at the presidential election in Russia . Observers reported numerous violations . 
Andrei Shevchenko , Secretary of the CPRF's Volgograd Regional Committee, informed the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent that the Communists filed three complaints to the regional election commission, one to the court, and "dozens to the PECs (precinct election commissions) and TECs (territorial election commissions)." 
At 12:00 a.m. Moscow time on March 20, according to the Secretary of the CPRF's Volgograd Regional Committee, in Lenin Square in Volgograd, the Communists will hold a sanctioned picket against falsifications of the election outcome. 
Representatives of Ksenia Sobchak, the "Yabloko" Party, the CPRF and the Navalny's office also claimed input of false information in voters' lists, cruise voting, and pressure on observers. However, representatives of the LDPR (Liberal Democratic Party of Russia) and the "Spravedlivaya Rossiya" (Fair Russia) Party said that the election was held in a calm atmosphere and without any serious violations. 
As at 5:00 a.m. Moscow time on March 19, the "Map of Violations" prepared by the movement "Golos" (Vote) for the protection of the voters' rights published 15 reports of violations committed on the voting day in the Volgograd Region. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Tatiana Filimonova ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; South Federal District; Volgograd region All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY