19 March 2018, 02:10 Observer announces three attempts of ballot stuffing at a polling station in Kaspiysk 
Marat Ismailov, an observer from the "Yabloko" Party, registered three facts of ballot stuffing (throw-in) at a polling station in Kaspiysk. According to him, when he tried to stop a ballot stuffing, unidentified people wanted to take him outside, but the police intervened. The final protocol was also drawn up with violations, Marat Ismailov also noted. 
The " Caucasian Knot " has reported that on March 18, the voting took place at the presidential election in Russia . Observers reported numerous violations . 
"I noticed three cases of ballot stuffing, and at least 20 ballots were thrown in every time. When I claimed the facts of ballot stuffing, members of the PEC (precinct election commission) and the police did not reacted. They said I saw something wrong," the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was told by Marat Ismailov , an observer from the "Yabloko" Party. 
The man also said that an unidentified person tried to persuade him out of the polling station. 
"An unidentified person approached me and urged me to go out with him. I refused. And two other unidentified persons also tried to forbid me to record a video and asked me why I was not sitting in the same place, but moving around the station. They also refused to introduce themselves. They left when I told them that the chair of the PEC had allowed me to record videos," Marat Ismailov said. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   Author: Patimat Makhmudova ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; Dagestan; North-Caucasian Federal District All news In Georgia, six participants of a protest near "Rustavi-2" building detained 
During a protest action, members of the NGO "Georgian March" attacked a journalist of the "Rustavi-2" TV Channel, who voiced an awkward joke about Christ. This was reported on March 19 by Nika Gvaramiya, the general director of the "Rustavi-2" TV Channel. He has apologized for the journalist's joke and called on to punish the persons involved in the attack on the journalist. March 20, 2018 13:37 Supporters of Zhirair Sefilyan express their indignation about verdict to him 
Zhirair Sefilyan, the leader of the Armenian movement "100 years without regime", and six other defendants were found guilty and sentenced to 2-10.5 years of imprisonment. Advocates, relatives and supporters of the defendants treated the verdict as a demonstration of power by the authorities. March 20, 2018 12:31 
On March 19, a regular soldier was wounded on one of the defensive positions in the Tavush Region, and his condition is severe, but stable, the Armenian Ministry of Defence (MoD) reports today. March 20, 2018 08:00 
  March 20, 2018 06:57 Russian journalists warn about possibility of aggravation of tension in Karabakh 
The military exercises held by Azerbaijan have become the largest military training since last summer, stated the military experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". Russian military journalists and experts called the military exercises a preparation for an offensive against the positions of the armies of Armenia and Nagorno-Karabakh. TOPICS OF THE DAY