Technology / What GPS module 
The GPS Module – a receiving device which is designed to determine the geographic coordinates of the location of the receiving antenna at the current time based on the data of the time delays of arrival of radio signals. 
Many people often confuse concepts such as GPS and GPRS. GPRS technology is suitable for mobile Internet access, GPS technology (Global Positioning System) means a satellite navigation system. Receiving the GPS module is not transmitting anything, it only receives data from satellites and determines its location by solving a mathematical problem. In order for the device to determine its location (coordinates), it is required that the device have seen not less than four satellites. The coordinates will be more accurate the more satellites you will see a GPS module. The receiver sensitivity and speed are determined by the device used in the chip. Under speed you know how fast the device is able to determine the coordinates. Under the sensitivity referring to the ability of the receiver to determine the maximum number of satellites. 
GPS navigation can be divided into two types: the professional, which have a high positioning accuracy, and household. First found application in the military field, in surveying, cartography, well appliances can be found in almost every area of modern life. Professional devices are of high quality manufacture not only components, but also antennas, software, operating frequencies, increased energy, and most importantly - price. 
Why the need For GPS module? First and foremost, these devices can be useful to motorists. Even in my hometown don't always know how to go in a particular place. GPS devices help not only to get to a given street, but also accurately determine the necessary number. Also, these devices can calculate the best route to the specified address, without traffic jams and roads with the oncoming one-way traffic, and closed on repair of streets and emergency sections. An essential GPS Navigator and travel in unfamiliar places. It will help quickly to reach any specified cities and any address. 
But do not think that these devices only need to motorists. It can be essential for pedestrians, particularly tourists. So, the GPS module for a tablet or mobile phone can help the traveller to navigate in a strange city, tourist information, shops, markets and the like, and most importantly - will help to return back to the hotel. And you don't have, not knowing the language, stick to passers-by that they point you the right way. 
Many outdoor enthusiasts such as hunters, mushroom pickers, anglers, often use GPS systems: they help to get out of any slums and return to civilization. 
Also, this device helps you find stolen equipment. For example, the GPS module for the laptop can help determine the location of your device, which greatly helps in tracing stolen items. 