Next Story Group Leadership Team Expands and Welcomes Two New Senior Executives Darren Edmonstone and Andreas Flaig Have Joined Next Story Group 
Anand Nadathur, Group Chief Executive Officer of Singapore-based Next Story Group, today announced two key additions to his executive team in support of the group's ambitious expansion. Next Story Group welcomes Darren Edmonstone as Chief Executive Officer of Next Hotels & Resorts, and Andreas Flaig as Group Chief Development Officer. 
Formerly known as SilverNeedle Hospitality, the company transformed itself into Next Story Group in 2017 through the acquisition of Brand Karma, a pioneer in hospitality social media, digital marketing, and virtual reality; and the launch of Kafnu, a new lifestyle-oriented shared space concept that brings together aspects of live, work, play and learn integrated seamlessly under one roof. 
Darren Edmonstone to drive excellence at Next Hotels & Resorts 
Originally from Australia, Darren Edmonstone joins Next Story Group from Outrigger Resorts where he held the role of Managing Director, overseeing Asia-Pacific and was responsible for successfully launching their brand in Asia-Pacific and growing it to success. 
Darren has acquired extensive expertise in operations, development, brand building, and finance over the past 30 years within the hotel industry and has worked across the Asia Pacific region. Prior to Outrigger, Darren held key positions in the Peninsula Group. 
As CEO of Next Hotels & Resorts, Darren will be responsible for driving highly customized guest offerings and delivering operational excellence across the Next, Sage, Country Comfort & other hotel brands within the group. Andreas Flaig to lead the Expansion of Next Story Group 
Andreas Flaig joins the group with over 25 years of depth in the hotel industry with a variety of experience ranging from development & technical services through corporate strategy & asset management to investments and acquisitions. 
He has been responsible for driving profitable growth for a number of world-renowned international hotel groups and hospitality franchises. Most recently Andreas held executive roles at Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group in Singapore, JLL Hotels & Hospitality based in China, and Aareal Bank in Germany. 
Following Next Story Group's successful opening of Sage Hotel Ringwood in Melbourne as well as Kafnu properties in Hong Kong and Taipei, Andreas will be accelerating the Group's growth on top of an existing strong pipeline of over 10 hotel & Kafnu properties in Bangalore, Colombo, Ho Chi Minh City, Melbourne, Mumbai and Sydney. 
Andreas and Darren will oversee their executive roles from the Singapore headquarters of Next Story Group. About Next Story Group 
Next Story Group designs, manages and markets hotels and blended lifestyle spaces. Seeing each real estate asset as a living ecosystem, the group optimises design and performance for each space based on customer demand. With experienced leaders in design, marketing, operations and emerging technologies, Next Story Group adopts a holistic approach to each space it manages, futureproofing its owners' investments. 
The group currently owns, manages and franchises 37 Hotels & Resorts across Asia-Pacific and has recently launched two Kafnu spaces in Taipei & Hong Kong. The group has a strong pipeline of over 10 properties across the region. 
For more information: www.nextstory.com