Home / policy / Putin caught in his own trap Putin caught in his own trap 10 hours ago policy 2 Views 
It seems that the leader ordered his subordinates to improve the lives of the people. It is not clear how to reconcile this with the militarization and contempt for the state machine to managed. 
Start with a cute trifle. The official report about the economic results of January—February, prudently, published until March 18th, tells the story of a rather sour results in all areas except one — the level of living of the people. Here progress is almost staggering. Show completely… 
Real wages were 10% higher than the same period last year, while real disposable incomes of the population — 2.5%. Instead of the usual dip or toptaniy in place — a moderate increase on the second point, and fairly rapid at first. I will not disassemble the statistical tricks that have helped to achieve this. What is more important. Rosstat, with his professional instinct, guessed that by the will of the higher spheres people deprived of the right to Peter out further. The fidelity of this prediction was brilliantly confirmed just two days later. 
The main point of Friday’s treatment of Vladimir Putin to the Russians was the promise to “do everything, what they talked about during the election campaign.” 
“You, citizens of Russia, rightly talk about the decline in revenues, the deficiencies in health, housing, other areas… We… boost real incomes and reduce poverty, develop infrastructure and social sphere — education, health care, tackle environmental and housing problems, to update, to improve our cities and towns… About these tasks, I said in the message. In fact, it is clear, specific, detailed plan for our common action…” 
I’ve had to write that the “peaceful” part of the March installation of speech (in fact — the election program) is fundamentally different from all the statements that Putin did before his previous presidencies. It was not merely a repetition of the standard vague recitations of how it seemed to most analysts, stunned by the militant cartoons that followed. 
The usual spells at “the peace” topic, naturally, was about the flourishing of entrepreneurial freedom, love for small businesses and other things that say made on solemn occasions in the last not even twenty and thirty years. 
But beyond that was described and even six-year plan, compiled by presidential aide Andrei Belousov of the projections Kudrinsky CSR, recipes Crescenzago of the Mayor and Tito-glazewski lobbying filings. In form it reminded the Soviet five-year plan with their pile of targets, and the content was pretty strange cocktail of very different ingredients. 
From CSR there is the idea of a sharp growth of spending on health care, education, road construction and other useful things. From the Ministry of economic development — Bolshevik, the growth rate of the economy (as much as one and a half times to the mid 20-ies). And from lobbyists — cheaper credit and increased government funding of their irrevocable undertakings, presented as a breakthrough and superparadise. 
All this together could be called another authoritative dreams and dreams — and don’t waste words in the retelling. However, a few months in the minds of senior management lives the idea that further belt-tightening on the people — thing undesirable, not to say risky. Looking at the promises of the leader under this perspective, you realize that he really wants to try to do anything tending to the improvement of people’s life. See also: The British would be happy if Putin headed the Kingdom 
But this is a great intellectual breakthrough. Already six or seven years, in fact since the beginning of the tenth years, literally all management innovations have reduced to the material clip of the masses and the selective promotion of only those selected groups that the system was perceived as useful: mainly security officers and supervisors, part — teachers and doctors. And suddenly, the state machine turns to face the masses. She even agrees with the justice of their complaints about poverty and other hardships. 
Vladimir Putin specially summoned Anton Siluanov, to talk about “financial security the main directions and plans that have been announced by the President in address to the Federal Assembly”. The Minister promised to come up with something, but the most exciting part of the conversation, in which the main financier, apparently, set out specific their inventions, not published. 
However, something you might guess from the leaks from the government. Discuss the increase in the personal income tax (Ministry of Finance and the MAYOR seems against the social block over), as well as the reduction of social contributions, compensated by the rise in VAT (Ministry of Finance and the MAYOR, the social block against). Well, many other differences. For example, the reduced benefits, accompanied by improving their targeting, another pension innovations, the introduction of sales tax, etc. 
You ask: where is Narodowa? Not sure what the bosses condescend to answer, but if you’re lucky, learn from it, pressed from people or saved on it will spend this money for his own use — for treatment, teaching and everything else. A simple idea that manipulation made by bureaucrats over ordinary people ostensibly for his benefit, but definitely without his consent, can this man get angry, is not taken into account. “I don’t think the difference between 13% and 15% such that people ran from in the other jurisdiction” — that is how fresh looks at the growth of personal income tax Deputy Prime Minister Arkady Dvorkovich, the man, even on government measure with the normal human life is not familiar. 
Technocrats ordered to come up with a way to give something to the common people. They take under a peak and begin to fumble at the people in the pockets, not even thinking that the corridor of opportunity, which they are allowed, could easily lead not just to the usual grumbling shirnarmass, and perhaps to protest unpleasant scale. 
It is estimated that neodoljive Putin’s promises will require over six years of approximately 20.5 trillion By coincidence, this amount is very similar to the budget of the new state armaments programme. It would seem that here is the source of funding for these initiatives, at least partial. But the reduction in spending power of the rulers shall be forbidden to even hint. A wise Finance Minister has categorically rejected this idea, answering the questions immediately after the March message. He should know that in the eyes of our higher leadership is acceptable and what is not. 
But if you mean to combine the usual arms race and newfound generosity to the people (even at his expense), then the first is easy to imagine (I mean no results, and spending), and the second will result in the incremental removal of citizens money, is in no way offset by the benefits that they were allegedly showering. See also: Renaissance Putin's capitalism is impossible in principle 
Just imagine our state machine. As she lucidly and softly convince people to fork, and then carefully improves their life, prudent spending every penny produced. 
By the way, these days she in small areas as if deliberately reminded the audience of their capacity. 
Volodinskaya state Duma (in theory — one of the higher authorities) had barricaded themselves, not only from journalists, but, if possible, and in General from any visitors from the outside. The refusal to reprimand his man for pranks is only part of what is now taken and proclaimed this institution. Mutual responsibility is a virtue for the GOP. But when she sounded angrily proclaim with public stands, she has transformed into a principle of state policy, though not contested our other guiding figures and structures. Imagine how these people will carry out orders to surround with caress and care subjects. 
And on the opposite side — unusual novelty, a fairly wide media boycott of the arrogant Parliament. Not very likely that he will break the pride of deputies, but it says a lot about what state machine responses increasingly will get from people hurt by the action, her eyes are completely normal. 
And in the forefront are not the intellectuals, which the authorities used to fear. Disguised police rapid escape of the Governor of the Moscow region Volokolamsk own crowd of voters who can no longer live near a toxic dump — this is a typical reaction of a technocrat for the consequences of their management activities. 
Published recently an article by Alexei Kudrin that after March 18 opened the window of opportunity, and we must hurry to do good and reasonable things, not looking at their “unpopularity” (after all, both treatment and training can also be “unpopular”), ignores the same technocratic trap, no matter how far from Volodin or Vorobiev its author nor stood in the intellectual and moral attitude. 
Man endures pain and voluntarily treated, if you trust the doctor. And if you do not trust, but still strong, then there will be trouble. The people are counting on any benefits from the authorities after a long break. But it is not located to pay for them in advance a state machine, which in his eyes looks hostile, fraudulent and dangerous. And already starting to show claws, for any reason. 
Those who imagined that, on 18 March, Vladimir Putin has received from the masses consent to endure sacrifices and hardships, do not understand what happened. People are not the least bit reluctant victims. He’s tired and wants to Peter out breaks. Putin realizes this. Because promises to give the state machine orders, tending to the fulfilment of its promises. 
The problem here is one. For something to happen, someone still needs to make sacrifices. If not the people, then — state machine. But it is now for any reason declares that no abuses will not be tolerated. And who the leader is socially close? © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share