Home / policy / How was killed USSR: technology of blasting superpowers How was killed USSR: technology of blasting superpowers 10 hours ago policy 4 Views 
It is unlikely that this will show on the main TV channels: a Particular promotion, which led to the collapse of the Soviet Union. VIDEO 
March 17, 1991 in the USSR held a referendum in which people were asked one question : 
“Do You consider necessary the preservation of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics as a renewed Federation of equal sovereign republics, which will fully guarantee the rights and freedoms of any nationality?” 
The vast majority of people who participated in the referendum voted for the preservation of the USSR – for 77.85%, but only voted more than 113 million Soviet citizens. See also: Turkey - Netherlands: transport-diplomatic conflict 
However, contrary to the opinion expressed by the people, of the political elite took the decision to dismantle the Soviet Union, and fixed the Belovezhskaya agreements. 
When ripe it is the solution? Was it just a statement of inevitability, as it was applied in the early 90’s? Many facts are forced to assume that long before 1991 had a plan for the elimination of the second superpower. 
Repeatedly the view was expressed that the notorious deficits created artificially; all sorts of political structures that emerged in those years, and declaring the fight for freedom, only to camouflage the slogan of their anti-state objectives. See also: The "new" EU policy: suicide for the United States 
The question arises, if this hypothesis is correct, then why are the most senior representatives of the authorities did not stop the destructive processes going on in the adjustment period? What it is: neprofessionalizm or something else? 
As matured anti-Soviet project that proved fatal for the Soviet Union, and what lessons we could learn from those events? To these and other questions, answered by the authors of unique works – the documentary film “the Domino Principle”: © 2018, z-news.xyz . All rights reserved Share