Nokia Bell Labs ties up with University of Helsinki for 5G air quality monitoring   12:59 CET | News 
The University of Helsinki said it and Nokia Bell Labs are developing equipment that uses the 5G network to generate precise and instant data on the environment and air quality. Professor Sasu Tarkoma, head of the university’s department of computer science, said the MegaSense aims to create a global monitoring system that can provide exact information on harmful substances in the air. This could be used in a devices in cars, at home or at the office. 
The MegaSense project is based on a dense network of sensors covering an urban area to detect polluters and develop a live overview of air quality. The results from the sensors are supplemented by data from the university's SMEAR research stations in Finland and China. All data are then combined and processed via the 5G network. 
The project uses existing air pollution map and prediction models which also consider wind direction and the location of the air quality sensors. The calibrated information can be used in a variety of applications almost instantly. 
The opportunity for live updates could provide a business idea for some companies said Tarkoma. The project is also working on mobile applications to increase health through air quality data. These in include the Green Path visual consumer app. 
In the future, air quality sensors will be very small and could be used in products relating to air conditioning, smart windows, mobile devices, phone apps and HD maps. 
The first MegaSense pilot is currently going on at the University of Helsinki’s Kumpula Campus. There, the air quality sensors have been connected to Nokia's NetLeap/NDAC network as a cloud service, and the data processing and application use take place in a local cloud server. 
The next pilot will be arranged in Beijing. There the goal is to create an extensive environmental measuring system based on the 5G network to monitor air quality and the environment.  