Image: Body: 
Following a successful 2017 season and unprecedented demand for 2018, Somerset House are delighted to announce that the East and West Wings, primarily used as exhibition spaces throughout the year, are now available for private hire over the summer months. 
The popular central London events venue and centre of contemporary culture is offering clients availability of its East and West Wings. For the very first time, hire of these two spaces will include an outdoor section of the Edmond J. Safra Fountain Court, where guests will be able to experience a large-scale light installation by Anglo-Korean artist duo Kimchi and Chips, entitled Halo. Over 100 mirrors will reflect the light of the sun through the mist of Somerset House’s famous fountains to ‘draw’ a shape of light suspended in the air. The shapes will appear and disappear throughout the day depending on the sun’s position. 
With summer being the busiest season of the year, the Corporate Events team continually aim to find new event spaces, adding extra capacity and versatility for their clients. The blank canvas spaces substantially add to Somerset House’s scope for corporate and private summer parties, with the East Wing accommodating up to 300 for a standing reception and the West Wing 150. 
Traditionally, the East and West Wings have housed a number of high profile exhibitions including the most recent ‘North: Fashioning Identity’, ‘Perfume: A Sensory Journey Through Contemporary Scent’, the highly popular Fortnum and Mason Christmas Arcade and the world-famous Sony World Photography Awards. The spaces can cater for summer parties for up to 300 guests, with the addedbenefit of high ceilings, grand windows, and magnificent views. The West Wing consists of 19 separate spaces which can be adapted for a multitude of uses, whilst the East Wing consists of various interlinking rooms, offering the potential of a unique journey for guests. 
Stephanie Bevan-Moss, Co-Head of Corporate Events at Somerset House, comments: “ After winning a number of awards in 2017, including ‘Most Versatile Venue’, we are committed to providing event organisers with a variety of venue choices. Having experienced unprecedented demand for summer parties for 2018, we are excited to offer clients the opportunity to utilise some of our iconic exhibition spaces for their summer party. We are looking forward to a very exciting and busy summer ahead .” 
Other summer party spaces currently available for 2018 at Somerset House include the Portico and Navy Board Rooms, Seamen’s Hall and the River Terrace. Somerset House’s extensive list of accredited suppliers will assist in creating a memorable Summer event, providing everything from flowers and props to the catering. 
Bookings for the East and West Wing spaces are now being taken by the Events team at Somerset House.