Image: Body: 
Visitors to Hamburg Convention Bureau’s stand at IMEX in Frankfurt can step inside one of Europe's largest convention centres and virtually explore the redeveloped venue’s 50 halls in advance of its official opening. 
Specially developed VR headsets using new ‘unreal engine’ technology enable planners at the show to move through the Congress Center Hamburg (CCH) and interact with the space. The new CCH will be the largest of its kind in Germany when it reopens in 2020 with a 12,000 sqm exhibition area and 12,000 seats in up to 50 halls. The redeveloped centre will be able to accommodate several concurrent events and the entrance hall, rising as tall as the main building, provides an additional multi-purpose space. 
Joining the CCH team at Hamburg Convention Bureau’s stand at IMEX are a vast range of hotels and venues. This includes three 5* hotels - the largest privately owned 5* conference hotel in Germany, the Grand Elysee; the Hotel Atlantic Kempinski and the recently-opened The Fontenay, which offers breath-taking views over the Alster Lake from its 131 rooms and suites. 
Other hotels on the stand include the greenest hotel in Germany - the Scandic; hip design hotel Gastwerk and Jufa Hotel Hamburg HafenCity – a new four-star, 200 room hotel located in the heart of Europe's largest inner-city development project. It has five workshop and seminar rooms, hosting up to 500 participants. 
TUI Cruises, one of the leading catering and event suppliers Nord Event and UNESCO World Heritage Site Lübeck, ensure there is a wide range of venues, destinations and suppliers from across the Germany’s celebrated maritime region for planners to meet. 
Florian Gerdes, Marketing Manager Conventions at Hamburg Convention Bureau, explains: 
“ We’re looking forward to showing planners a new way to experience the city’s show stopping venues. The use of innovative technology at our stand – combined with traditional Hamburg hospitality with curry sausage and tea cocktails – brings to life the city’s top credentials as a formidable location for meetings and events. Hamburg offers an ever-growing choice of venue and accommodation options - with 19 hotels scheduled to open this year alone .”