Home › Featured › OPPO donate F5 Youth units to Ideas Positive youth teams during boot camp OPPO donate F5 Youth units to Ideas Positive youth teams during boot camp 0 Press Release OPPO Philippines has teamed up with Ideas Positive, the country’s premier youth engagement program for healthier communities. OPPO donated OPPO F5 Youth units to Ideas Positive youth teams during the boot camp at Camp Allen, Santa Cruz, Laguna. The OPPO phones will be used by participants in sharing their journey and capturing the best moments and experiences with their communities. The goal is to help the youth spread the word about the innovative health solutions that Ideas Positive are implementing in their communities through social media. OPPO’s donated smartphones will be used by Ideas Positive youth teams in documenting and sharing their community experiences. 
This was OPPO’s first Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) project in 2018. Ideas Positive is a program of Unilab Foundation whose mission is to build a healthier Philippines. 
“We are grateful that OPPO partnered with Ideas Positive. For the past years, majority of our participants use their own mobile phones in documenting their projects. However, not all of them own good quality smartphones that can take quality photos and videos . OPPO’s support this year is a big help to the youth teams in documenting their project implementation,” said Alfred Dicto, Project Lead for Ideas Positive. 
Already on its eighth year, Ideas Positive holds a nationwide competition where youth teams can develop innovative solutions that address health issues in the community level . Among hundreds of entries, seventeen teams were chosen this year to participate in a three-day boot camp, where they learned the basics of project management, leadership, and communication. Each team will receive up to Php100,000 in funding to implement their project with their chosen community. 
“OPPO believes that the youth plays a huge role in nation-building. We are glad to partner with Ideas Positive in supporting and empowering the Filipino youth,” said Eason De Guzman, OPPO Philippines’ PR Manager. “We have seen how enthusiastic and passionate the participants are in helping the communities. We hope that with OPPO’s support, the teams will be able to capture their best moments and share their wonderful stories and experiences with their communities ,” de Guzman added. 
The teams with the best health outcomes will be announced in August 2018, and will be awarded with cash prizes and smartphones from OPPO Philippines. Check out the OPPO F5 Youth’s features here and its price drop here . 
For updates, visit the OPPO Philippines’ Facebook page and follow Ideas Positive . 
 