0 3 
Non performing Delta state House of Assembly Majority Leader and member representing Isoko North constituency, Mr. Tim Owhefere, is said to be currently running from pillar to post following resistance by his constituents against his reelection come 2019. 
Mr. Owhefere said to have been known for abandonment of constituency projects, reckless flamboyant life style and poor legislative performance have vowed to return to the house with the assistance of the state governor, Ifeanyi Okowa who is also staging a come back for a second term. 
Against this backdrop of non performance, political stakeholders across the 13 wards in Isoko North constituency have vowed to stop Mr. Owhefere’s second term bid through all political means within their powers, even as they admonished him not to bother to seek re-election to the state House of Assembly come 2019. 
Speaking during an enlarged meeting of the political stakeholders across the 13 wards under the umbrella of Isoko For Development (IFD), held weekend at Ofagbe, Isoko North local government area of the state, the constituents described the lawmaker as the worst thing that has ever happened to the constituency and therefore advised him to as a matter of importance look for an alternative employment in Lagos or elsewhere and allow persons with good will and interest of the constituency at heart to go for the position in 2019. 
According to the constituents, each opportunity they have given to Mr. Owhefere to represent them can only be likened to great treasure thrown into the deep sea. 
In a communique signed by the national coordinator of the Isoko For Development, (IFD), pressure group, Mr. Iruoghene Ufi and the deputy national coordinator, Mrs. Cordelia Mariogha, and made available to HardReporters, gave several reasons why they are against the lawmaker’s reelection bid which among other things include failed campaign promises, zero consultation, accountability, abandonment of projects, highhandedness, zero constituency projects, dumb representation, empowerment, blame game and others. 
“For three consecutive tenures that Hon. Tim Owhefere has been elected into the house, he’s not known to have fulfilled any campaign promise to any constituent that laboured for him and the party during the election. The era of overlooking him because of party supremacy is gone as we are prepared to hold him accountable for his political sins should he decide to run in 2019. 
“While other members consult their constituents from time to time, Hon. Tim Owhefere is the direct opposite. He doesn’t need the input of anybody and the result of this is the recently approved 2018 Delta State budget where our political fate was sealed while he was politically fast asleep. One of the ways through which a politically elected leader can render account to his constituents is by periodic briefing. 
“For 12 years running, our honourable member has not considered it necessary to call for a meeting to address us on how well he has managed our collective destiny in the State capital. We can no longer accept this. It is obvious that the member representing Isoko North Constituency in the DTHA do not have our interest at heart at all. Whether by his utterances, body language and general attitude one thing so clear is that Hon. Tim Owhefere doesn’t care what happens to us as a people. 
“Can anybody proudly tell us whether a mega project has been attracted to Isoko North by our honourable member since assumption of office? When other members seek the good interest of their constituents, our own will award contracts to himself, turn around sell to others at cut throat price and thereafter fail to insist that such jobs are executed. Little wonder Isoko North Constituency can boast of the highest number of abandoned projects in Isoko Nation. Pictures don’t lie, we will show them in due course. 
“Apart from moving motions which his office as Majority Leader bestows on him, you hardly hear his voice on the floor of the house as he has absolutely nothing to offer to better the lot of Isoko North Constituents. We may be forced to change our mind and support Hon. Tim Owhefere in 2019 if he can point to 13 persons (one from each ward) he has empowered since he assumed office 12 years ago. We make bold to ask: who he help? A good leader must be forceful and proactive thereby attracting great development to the people he represents. 
“As the 3rd most important member of the house, there is virtually no benefit that has accrued to his constituency in terms of projects or any other thing for that matter. A man who is aware of his failure and takes action to correct his mistakes is wise, but when a leader constantly attributes his failures to others then something is definitely wrong. Take a trip to Hon. Mariere’s constituency and take a good look at yourself so that you can be a better judge in 2019. 
“Our honourable member has been ruling us for the past 12 years with iron hand and we earnestly ask for a change. All we are asking for is a man who has the milk of human kindness flowing through his veins. And this we believe, is not too much to ask.” the communiqué stated. SHARE 