26 March 2018, 00:57 On March 19-25, 2018, six persons fell victim to armed conflict in Northern Caucasus 
During the week of March 19-25, 2018, at least seven persons fell victim to the armed conflict in Northern Caucasus. Of them, six were killed and one was injured. These are the results of the calculations run by the " Caucasian Knot " based on its own materials and information from other open sources. 
The death toll includes five suspected militants of the armed underground in Chechnya and one in Dagestan. 
Attacks on law enforcers 
At about 8:00 p.m. Moscow time on March 20, in the Staropromyslovsky District of Grozny, an unidentified person wounded an assistant to the on duty police officer from the Department No. 4 of the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIA) in the city of Grozny. According to investigators, the policeman requested a young man, who stayed near an entrance to the police station, to produce his ID for verification and after that the latter "snatched a pistol from behind his belt" and opened fire. The criminal was killed by return fire opened by the policemen. According to the investigators, the attacker was a resident of Grozny, born in 1997. The wounded policeman is hospitalized, and his condition is stable. The responsibility for the incident was claimed by the terrorist organization "Islamic State" (IS) banned in Russia by court's decision. 
Special and counterterrorist operations 
On March 20, at 15.00 Moscow time, the counterterrorist operation (CTO) legal regime was introduced in the Khasavyurt and Kizilyurt Districts of Dagestan . 
At about 10:00 p.m. Moscow time on March 21, policemen of the MIA for Chechnya detected and cordoned off a group of militants in a wooded area in the vicinity of the Bamut village in the Achkhoi-Martan district near the border with Ingushetia. A special operation was carried out, during which four persons were killed . No law enforcers suffered. At the place of the armed clash, the law enforcers found small arms and ammunition. In the course of the special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev, and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed . The oldest of the killed suspects was 34 years old, while the youngest 20 years old. 
At 3:40 p.m. Moscow time on March 24, the counterterrorist operation (CTO) legal regime was introduced in the Andi village in the Botlikh District of Dagestan. With the support provided by the National Guard of Russia and the MIA, fighters of the FSB special forces, cordoned off the house, where a suspected militant was hiding. He was killed in an armed clash after he had refused to lay down his arms and surrender to the authorities. According to the available operational data, he was identified as Yunus Khabibov, a commander of a militant grouping, who was in the federal wanted list and who swore allegiance to the international terrorist organization "Islamic State" (IS) banned in the Russian Federation. No law enforcers or civilians were injured. At 2:00 p.m. Moscow time on March 25, the CTO legal regime in the Andi village was lifted .  