Being Selfish Makes the World Better 
The better off everyone is, the better off we all are. It sounds simple on its face, but isn't quite as easy in practice. Kurzgesagt looks at the incentives for innovation and how, in a global economy, getting everyone a good standard of living helps us all. Isle of Dogs Featurette 
In a series of featurettes, Wes Anderson is taking you behind the scenes of his latest film. Isle of Dogs will be his second stop-motion feature and like most of his projects includes a list of A-list voices. The first clip dives into the meticulous animation process that went into turning hundreds of inanimate objects into living, breathing characters, while another introduces the cast which features Bryan Cranston, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Jeff Goldblum, and Bob Balaban. The film comes to theaters March 23, 2018. Basketball Robot 
Dubbed Cue, Toyota has finally created an athlete that will never let you down. Although it's a robot, it can shoot free throws with 100 percent accuracy. Even when pitted up against players from Japan's Alvark Tokyo it just can't miss. NBA players don't need to worry just yet. With only a perfect shot from the stripe in its repertoire, Cue won't be getting drafted anytime soon. Frye Summit Hiking Boots 
Hiking boots were once only worn by avid outdoorsmen. Now, they're versatile enough to wear every day, whether you're tackling a trail or slippery pavement on the way to work. The Summit Hiking Boot is made using smooth full grain and vintage vegetable tanned leather that will age gracefully. Each pair also features molded rubber soles for solid footing on almost any surface. In addition, they're backed by Frye's commitment to quality, which dates back to 1863. 
Presented by Frye. 5.11 Rush24 Backpack 
The 5.11 RUSH24 pack has its roots in military applications but its practical approach to storage and durable construction make it ready for a grueling commute or adventure travel. The functional layout of the internal pockets allows for easy storage of all your daily necessities while the military style MOLLE straps on the outside allow for various options for storing extra gear or adding additional pouches or pockets. 
Presented by 5.11 Tactical. Putting a Price Tag On a Death Star 
So you need to destroy a pesky, Rebel-controlled planet. You're going to need a Death Star to do it, and Death Star's aren't cheap. To help you plan financially for the big purchase, Second Thought did up an estimate on what it would cost to get a new Death Star in your driveway. Get on the Black List. 
Be the first to know about the newest gear, automobiles, and apparel for men. YOU’RE NOW ON THE LIST. “If James Bond were to make an app for the stuff he wanted to buy, this would be the app.” 
— Doug Stephens, Retail Futurist 