26 March 2018, 02:31 Believers of Nasyr-Kort mosque ask Khamzat Chumakov not to leave his Imam position 
In Ingushetia, Khamzat Chumakov, Imam of the Nasyr-Kort mosque, has announced his resignation. Believers of the mosque have not agreed with the Khamzat Chumakov's decision and asked him to take leave and then return to work. 
Khamzat Chumakov is a preacher popular among the believers who became well-known for his sermons and video appeals, in which he denounced corruption among officials. On September 14, 2010, in the area of the Ekazhevo village in the Nazran District, an assassination attempt was committed against Khamzat Chumakov, as a result of which the Imam was seriously injured. 
During the Friday sermon delivered on March 23, Khamzat Chumakov announced his decision to leave the position of Imam at the Nasyr-Kort mosque, the "Kavkaz.Realii" reports. 
The decision of the Imam to lay down his authority was influenced by the state of his health and many years of his activities in conditions of emotional overstrain, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was told by Bagaudin Khautiev, a member of the council for the Nasyr-Kort mosque community. 
Members of the Muslim community expressed their dissatisfaction with the Imam's decision, noted Bagaudin Khautiev. 
"The believers of the mosque have rejected the decision of the Imam. They asked him to take leave for a certain period and then return to his activities. On Monday ( March 26 ), a meeting of the council for the Nasyr-Kort mosque community is to take place. I believe the council will also not support the Imam's decision," concluded Bagaudin Khautiev. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’.   Author: Magomed Tuayev, Umar Yovloi ; Source: CK correspondents bbb6b13d All news; Society; Dagestan; North-Caucasian Federal District All news Social network users shocked by idea to forget about terror act in Beslan 
Residents of North Ossetia and other regions of Russia offered their help in response to the appeal of Kaspolat Ramonov, an attendant of the memorial to the victims of the terror act in Beslan. He reported that the financing of the memorial had been terminated two years ago and officials suggested forgetting the tragedy. March 28, 2018 11:48 
Today, Sirazhudin Datsiev, the head of the Dagestani office of the Human Rights Centre (HRC) "Memorial", has been beaten near his home in Makhachkala, the "Caucasian Knot" correspondent was informed by Murad Magomedov, an advocate of the HRC. March 28, 2018 10:21 
On March 27, in Volgograd, a rally was organized by the authorities in memory of the victims killed by a fire in Kemerovo. A policeman demanded from participants to hide anti-corruption posters, activist Roman Zaitsev reported. March 28, 2018 08:30 
Dagestani Prosecutor Denis Popov has officially confirmed the detection of violations committed during the investigation into the killing of the Gasanguseinov brothers. March 28, 2018 08:03 Dagestan appears to be within area of probable fall of space station 
The China's TianGong-1 space station will enter the atmosphere and burn in it, and some parts of the space station can reach the Earth's surface, the European Space Agency (ESA) reported. The southern part of Dagestan fell into an area of probable fall of the China's space station. TOPICS OF THE DAY