Cavium expands industry partnerships to drive OCP NIC 3.0 Monday 19 March 2018 | 15:37 CET | News Cavium is collaborating with Hewlett Packard Enterprise (HPE) to bring hyperscale -inspired designs based on Open Compute Project into mainstream enterprise IT. The company said the introduction of Cavium FastLinQ 41000 Series 10/25GbE network interface cards (NICs) in OCP 2.0 form factor for HPE’s Cloudline Servers and broad collaboration on driving the emerging OCP NIC 3.0 standard will enable mainstream delivery of the most efficient designs for scalable computing to Cavium and HPE’s enterprise and cloud service provider customers. 
The OCP standard has the potential to minimise CapEx and OpEx by bringing the economies of scale within reach of Enterprise IT. The OCP NIC standard, now in its third generation (OCP NIC 3.0) proposes to further enhance server networking I/O options with expanded provisions for thermal footprints, PCIe Gen 4 and SmartNICs while reducing overall downtime by simplifying NIC installation and removal. 
Cavium and HPE have been committed to OCP's vision since its inception. HPE Cloudline uses standardised and custom servers that leverage OCP mezzanine adapters, such as the Cavium FastLinQ 41000 Series 10/25GbE NICs. At present available from HPE in OCP 2.0 form factors, Cavium FastLinQ adapters enable easier adaptability, scalability, and integration with support for key features such as network virtualisation offload and Universal RDMA. Cavium and HPE are collaborating to jointly drive, evangelise and embrace the Open Compute Project NIC 3.0 standard across the server and networking community worldwide. 
Purpose-built to accelerate and simplify data centre networking, Cavium FastLinQ Ethernet OCP NIC technology in HPE Cloudline servers delivers Universal RDMA, Network Virtualization Offloads, Server Virtualization, and Network Function Virtualization (NFV). The OCP NIC 3.0 Specification is a developing standard. Cavium FastLinQ 41000 Series 10/25Gbps Ethernet adapters in OCP 2.0 and Standard form factors are now available from HPE.  