Press Release 26 March 2018 Nobu Hotels is on Pace to Open 20 New Properties by 2020 Nobu Hospitality currently has seven hotels open and readied for guests, and in the course of this year and next, the chic hotel company plans to open eight more 
Nobu Hospitality currently has seven hotels open and readied for guests, and in the course of this year and next, the chic hotel company plans to open eight more. All told, Nobu has set a pace that will see the group open 20 Nobu properties globally by the year 2020. 
This constitutes a remarkable rise for a relatively new player in the international hospitality market. To put it all in perspective, Nobu Hotels was founded less than a decade ago, started in 2009 after stakeholders decided to extend the Nobu Restaurant brand into a global lifestyle hospitality brand. Nobu Hotels famously founded by Nobu Matsushisa, the actor Robert De Niro and Meir Teper. That group is now celebrating 25 total years within the hospitality industry after opening the first Nobu restaurant back in 1994. Keys to Nobu's Success 
The keys to their successes thus far seem to have been creating a stylish brand that to consumers is synonymous with instinctive design, only the finest materials and ingredients, priceless social interactions, and unique experiences. 
Meanwhile, the company has also worked to fuse all of those touches with a potent energy and a trademark passion for service, two qualities that are, of course, paramount to sustained success and word of mouth praise within the hospitality industry. 
"Nobu is constantly evolving and we touch all types of customer. This is truly an exciting time for Nobu Hotels ," said Nobu Hospitality Group CEO Trevor Horwell in a recent statement. "Our brand is already well-established globally but staying in tune with our next generation of customer is at the forefront of our brand ethos." 
Horwell went on to add: "Fundamental to the brand is customer content. Content creates memorable experiences and Nobu's intention is nothing less than to stir the industry with new and exciting product but more so it's what our customer says about us that matters." The Differences Between Nobu's Growing Hotel Properties 
Nobu's newer hotels are not carbon copies of its earlier properties. In fact, they are far from it. 
Each new Nobu hotel is built with a full commitment to its host region's locality. Take, for example, David Rockwell's beach-house inspired rooms in Nobu Hotel Miami, or the street art feel cool vibe one finds in London's new Nobu Shoreditch Hotel. To put it simply, each new Nobu property is built to mirror the personality of the destination where it can be found. 
This is, of course, a sustained effort to cater to the evolving tastes of guests within the hospitality market, bringing visitors into the feel and culture of a region within the comfortable confines of their hotels. 
And the industry has indeed responded with praise for Nobu's efforts, newly-opened Nobu Ryokan Malibu and Nobu Hotel Ibiza Bay have already been praised by critics and experts as some of the world's best overall hotels. 
Let's take a look at a few other projects currently underway by Nobu Hospitality: