Covai Post Network March 26, 2018 
Not long ago, a high profile and politically powerful prisoner lodged in Bengaluru central jail was exposed for by an upright police officer, D. Roopa Moudgil. 
The officer spoke on how the prisoner was allotted five separate cells with each one serving a purpose along with a 150 feet corridor for walking unlike in other cases where the prisoners are dumped like a herd of sheep in a single cell where they have to take turns to sleep. 
Speaking at Tedx Bengaluru she said that rich prisoners receive delicious food from hotels, home or sometimes get in cooked within the jail premises according to their taste. 
Prisons are dark and grim when it comes to poor convicts. Prison should be great levelers but unfortunately discrimination can be found even here. The poor incur the frustration of jail officials throughout while the rich are treated with a smile and salute. 
Cleanliness is another aspect where rich have an upper hand while the poor are forced to use dirty bathrooms causing them health issues. 
D. Roopa Moudgil, a 2001 batch IPS officer reveals how the accused in Nitish Katara murder case went out 66 times during his two year jail term. The underdog prisoners are always at risk of catching infection because not much attention is given to their health. 
Taking this account into consideration, IPS officer Roopa asked every prisoner to undergo a series of medical tests on day one including HIV and Tuberculosis. These were conducted with an objective of early diagnosis and to isolate people to check the spread of disease. 
According to social economic theory inequality, deprivation, prejudice discrimination against poor led to crimes and if these are replicated inside a jail then no prisoner will turn into a good leaf, she said. 
It is high time we sensitize prison staff, curb high handedness by installing CCTV cameras in court rooms and jail headquarters else prison will remain a breeding ground for criminals, D Roopa added. 
Watch the Video here: https://youtu.be/hQ4SYgOiGs4 ALSO READ