Industry Update Supplier News 26 March 2018 The West Coast’s Largest Digital Travel Summit to take place in just two weeks at Hotel Nikko San Francisco! Do you work in digital marketing, content marketing, social media, travel technology or data strategy for the travel industry? If you have answered yes to any of the above, then you need to clear your diary on April 9 -10. 
Attendees confirmed in the last week include Hyatt, TripAdvisor, Expedia, Fairmont, Hilton San Francisco, Accor Hotels, Kiwi Collection, Tourism Vancouver, Booking.com, Viceroy Hotel Group, Turkish Airlines, Diamond Resorts International and many more. 
The EyeforTravel San Francisco Digital Summit 2018 will be a two-day celebration of fiery innovation, and will provide the perfect platform for your business to adapt, grow and be ahead of the curve in times of disruption and change. 
The summit, just two weeks away will tackle topics such as the role of emerging technologies in travel, personalization, marketing strategies, utilizing data and technology to deliver an exceptional customer experience & more…this is just the start. 
The expert speaker line-up for 2018 includes Marriott, IHG, Jet Blue Technology Ventures, Choice Hotels, Facebook, Tencent, Winding Tree, OneFineStay, Cathay Pacific Airways, Lyft, Lola, Air Canada, Hopper, Hipmunk and more! 
Emerging technologies such as voice, AI, machine learning, and blockchain are all being talked about by the travel industry, but are they truly getting dissected? The San Francisco Digital Summit 2018 is the only event that will cut through the noise, separate the real use from the hype, and enable travel brands to truly come to grips with the opportunities for digital marketing campaigns. 
We have so much to talk about, and have split the event into two dedicated tracks: The show will be buzzing with insight on topics including: AI Breaking New Ground Working Creatively with Personalization – Successfully Leverage Data & AI Redefine and Rebuild your Social Media and Digital Strategy A Holistic Approach to Enhancing the Physical Experience with the Right Digital Technology Blockchain Demystified Incorporating Virtual Content and Mobile Video into Your Marketing Strategy Successfully Pioneer the Use of Data and Technology to Improve the Customer Experience and Drive Loyalty Reaching the Chinese Traveller The Power of Mobile to Drive Interaction; and much more! 
This summit is truly the only place you will be able to meet the cream of the crop in travel and walk away with insights you can action as soon as you get back to the office. 
Don't risk losing out on insights that will catapult your business in 2018 and beyond - Does your strategy stack up? Click here to reserve your place or contact Renu on her details below. 
Contact the team directly at – 
Contact Head of Digital & Content About EyeforTravel 
EyeforTravel is an online travel intelligence provider to hotels, airlines, online travel agents, cruise, car hire firms and more. Established in 1997 by Tim Gunstone, right at the inception of online travel, the group offers a diverse product portfolio including industry analysis, insights, research, webinars, reports and conferences. From major hotel brands to new startups, EyeforTravel helps its 80,000 strong customer base make better decisions, build better brands, close the most lucrative deals and ultimately sell more of their product. 
For more information visit www.eyefortravel.com.