BARTHAUER and DHI: joint presentation reinforces partnership 26 March 2018 At IFAT 2018 - World's Leading Trade Fair for Water, Sewage, Waste and Raw Materials Management, BARTHAUER is positioning itself as a competent, reliable provider of software solutions in the field of infrastructure and water management. The software company from Braunschweig is presenting itself jointly in partnership with DHI for the first time, in addition to displaying established products and innovations. Barthauer Software GmbH is an established software producer for integrated infrastructure management systems. BaSYS, the company’s flagship product, offers comprehensive tools for managing the entire lifecycle of supply and disposal networks, including water, wastewater and rainwater networks in particular. Close cooperation with modern companies is a permanent part of the company philosophy in addition to in-house software development. Efficient, sustainable solutions can be created this way by bundling expertise. The entire BARTHAUER team is already working successfully with DHI. Both companies are leaders in their respective fields, with many years of experience in the development of software and its reliable maintenance. State-of-the-art software solutions from BARTHAUER with pronounced functional depth in network management are a meaningful complement to the hydraulics solutions from DHI. The direct integration of DHI’s own calculation engine MIKE1D into the network information system BaSYS was a key milestone in the partnership between DHI and BARTHAUER. This integration makes it possible for BARTHAUER to offer an innovative alternative to the HYDROCAD solution, which has been delivered with BaSYS for years already. Due to the language independence of the entire system, BARTHAUER products can be used worldwide and are already available in many languages. DHI has branches around the world. This means that water suppliers, disposal companies and service providers in many countries have direct local access to the BARTHAUER infrastructure management system BaSYS. “With DHI, we have succeeded in gaining a stable partner with a similar company philosophy. We look forward to strengthening this partnership in the course of a joint trade fair presentation, realising synergies and bundling competencies. With qualified contact persons from both companies and a modern, inviting exhibition stand concept, we offer national and international visitors an opportunity to see the joint solution presented live,” says Anis Saad, Managing Director of Barthauer Software GmbH, emphasising the joint approach. In addition to the partnership presentation, the joint product of both companies – BaSYS MIKE hydrodynamic sewer network calculation – will play a leading role in this year’s IFAT appearance. BARTHAUER will have its own exhibition stand as well (hall B2/exhibition stand 153), presenting numerous innovations in the course of current expansions that take the dynamic transformations in the industry into account and redefine the standards for modern infrastructure systems. Smart City, compatibility with mobile devices and digitalisation are key aspects that have been further developed and integrated into the Braunschweig software producer’s product range. BARTHAUER is pursuing the consistent expansion of the software into an information system that is fit for the future with improved, intuitive operation, the smooth exchange of data, optimised transmission and automation with mobile devices. Here the focus was mainly on the BaSYS Cable, BaSYS Street and BaSYS Web modules. Henceforth the flexible management applications will fully meet the requirements for the rapid expansion of a comprehensive broadband network, the integration of above-ground and below-ground infrastructure data and the mobile transfer of net data. The integration of mobile rehabilitation documentation is another area of progress, with the objective of ensuring a consistent, digital flow of sewer rehabilitation data. From rehabilitation design to execution to billing and documentation of the implemented measures, all steps can be recorded and processed further with mobile devices. The essential information about rehabilitation measures that were actually carried out is therefore stored in the BaSYS database directly and immediately through the digital workflow. Claudia Hickmann, Head of Sales at BARTHAUER, says: “We are looking forward to presenting our market-leading products and solutions for the integrated management of distribution networks and infrastructure objects to the international industry audience at IFAT.”