Eurp-Cas will present conformity test for eHealth solutions at IHE Connectathon 2018, Den Haag - Hoofdinhoud © Kevin Bergenhenegouwen 18 april 2018 - 19 april 2018 plaats Den Haag During the IHE Connectathon 2018 in The Hague, the EU-funded Euro-Cas project will present the eHealth Conformity Assessment Scheme for Europe (CASforEU). It will assist public authorities, industry and users in testing eHealth solutions against identified eHealth standards and profiles. At the 2018 IHE Connectathon in The Hague you can join the 'EURO-CAS Open Dialogues', a series of four 60-minutes interactive sessions on 18 and 19 April. The four EURO-CAS Open Dialogue sessions will each focus on different aspects of the CASforEU and can be attended in sequence, however each will also stand on its own and deliver a short introduction and overview. The four sessions are: - Standards Conformity Assessment: Why Do We Need It? (18 April 2018, 10:30) - The Conformity Assessment Scheme for Europe and the Standards Behind It (18 April 2018, 15:00) - The Conformity Assessment Scheme for Europe: What’s in It for Me? (19 April 2018, 13:45) - Standards Conformity Assessment in eHealth: Make My Contribution Count (19 April 2018, 15:00) The four Open Dialogue sessions will discuss why public authorities and others need to assess the conformity of eHealth solutions with standards; the underlying standards and profiles in the initial CASforEU; the benefits for procurers, vendors, professionals, patients and citizens; and what is needed to deliver and maintain the CASforEU going forward. EURO-CAS welcomes all interested parties to attend and join the Open Dialogue. All sessions will take place at the Fokker Terminal (same location as the IHE Connectathon), Binckhorstlaan 249, The Hague and will be delivered as part of the Weekonnect programme, a mix of Dutch and English language educational sessions for visitors to the IHE Connectathon, organised and hosted by the Dutch Ministry of Economic Affairs and Climate Policy, the Dutch Ministry of Health, Welfare and Sport, the Dutch Platform for the Digital Society (ECP), and IHE Netherlands. More information on the Weekonnect programme, and link to the (free) registration. Free VIP tour In addition, all participants in the EURO-CAS Open Dialogue are cordially invited to a free VIP tour of the IHE Connectathon on Thursday, 19 March 2018, at 16:00. The tour will approximately take 20 minutes. Interested parties are requested to register for the tour . To stay up to date with EURO-CAS' news and events you can subscribe to their newsletter and follow them on Twitter and LinkedIn . About the EURO-CAS project Between 2016 and 2018, the European eHealth Interoperability Conformity Assessment Scheme for Europe ( EURO-CAS ) is developing the sustainable Conformity Assessment Scheme (CAS) for Europe, which will promote the adoption and take-up of interoperability testing of eHealth solutions against identified eHealth standards and profiles defined in the eHealth European Interoperability Framework (eEIF). The project is led by Inegrating the Health Care Enteprise (IHE) Europe (B) and coordinated by the European Institute for Biomedical Imaging Research (EIBIR) (AT) , and joined by fourteen national and regional government bodies, competence centres, and associations. The EURO-CAS project has received funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement No. 727028. More information about the project can be found at www.euro-cas.eu .