OldTwitter 
Data has always played a crucial role in advertising, marketing and the media industry and influencer marketing has fundamentally changed both brand communications strategies and the path to consumer purchasing decisions. The world wide web is a precious infrastructure and one that has afforded brands and marketers limitless opportunity to get better and smarter, and consumers to connect with the products they love. Facebook created an ecosystem that enables developers to use that data and build apps through the APIs. The entire economy has changed and Facebook played a huge role in this transition. As is usually the way with disruptive innovation, real policies to regulate this emerging market have struggled to keep pace. 
With more demand than ever for marketers to show transparency and trust in their advertising efforts this year, how is the influencer market expected to hold up? 
Well influencer marketing had to deal with criticism in the past and there is still some cynicism and questioning around influencers and whether they are genuinely convincing and honest about the way they talk about a brand’s product or service, but in fact #ad has been mandatory for a number of years already. Much of the debate hinges on a mis-informed belief that the social media-conscious market that brands are trying to reach is naive and in some way totally oblivious to advertising, which is simply not true. That said, influence online has actually benefited from the rise of influencer marketing because it introduced benchmarks, metrics and a transparent approach to products and brands being advertised. The key is to play it straight down the line and be up front and centre with #ad — otherwise risk being seen as deceptive or met with cynicism. At the end of the day, influencers are the ones who know their audience best and will know how to communicate your brand in a way which engages their audience specifically, so put some trust in them too. 
So how can this issue become an opportunity? 
Data is seen as gold because it is a tradable metric. The social media ecosystem has evolved in the last decade, and so did users’ consciousness of their data. Regulations will follow and the debate on the CA scandal will itself present an opportunity to build a more transparent ecosystem, where all stakeholders can benefit, without losing control of their data. 