19 March 2018, 09:42 Grozny state servants claim being forced to take part in a rally 
In the evening on March 18, in Grozny, about 70,000 people came for a rally dedicated to the anniversary of the Crimea's entry into Russia, the Chechen authorities reported. Teachers and students claimed being obliged to take part in the rally. 
On March 18, 2014, Vladimir Putin signed an agreement on the entry of Crimea and Sevastopol into Russia. Since that time, Grozny annually hosts rallies on March 18. Some of participants of the rally reported being forced to attend the action, but the authorities of Chechnya denied that information. 
The rally began at about 9:00 p.m. Moscow time and lasted two hours, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was informed by Petimat , a teacher from a Grozny school. "We were taken to the city centre right from the polling station, where we stayed all day until the voting finished. And after that we had to spend other two hours at the rally," the teacher said. 
The appearance at the rally was mandatory for students, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was informed by Shamil , a student of the Grozny University. "We also got instructions to bring to the rally our relatives or friends with us. At the place, we were handed over flags of Russia and Chechnya, various posters and banners, and we had a rally. Later, there were a concert, dancing and festivities. There were a lot of people, they were taken to the place by buses and route taxis, and many arrived in their private cars," the student said. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: All news; Politics; Society; Russia; Chechnya; North-Caucasian Federal District All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY