  380 times! FERWAFA Presidential aspirant Louis Rurangirwa has promised to introduce reforms in domestic football governing body if elected this Saturday. Rurangirawa the former national athletic body president and an international referee in an interview insisted that he will bring change in Rwandan football and also pledged to work with corporate companies, the Ministry of Sports and Culture, centers of excellence, referees, clubs presidents and veteran footballers who are not given any value to reform local football. “We have to change the image of the local football body; he said adding “The FA has been tarnished with coalitions and dishonesty in the past four years. First of all the electoral rules and regulations need to be reformed. “We need the veterans who played for the national team to involve them in centers of excellence, I will make sure that referees get paid on time, we have to work with the clubs to make sure that they create club structures so that they can work professionally. “We still need to find sponsors for the women plus the youth league that also has to be created. One of the reasons why we are struggling to line up the U20 Amavubi is because clubs don’t have academies.” He noted that his strategy is to make sure that all clubs have a youth team that will feature in the youth league. In this way, he believes that it will benefit the national teams when it comes to selecting for players who will play for Amavubi youth teams. s He further pointed that the AZAM sponsorship package has to be distributed evenly among the clubs instead of FERWAFA administrating consuming the biggest percentage. The tall and calm former RDF captain also emphasized that we need to give the opportunity to the local coaches, offer them training overseas so that they can coach the national team. Rurangirwa is a former Rwandan referee and recognized by the Rwanda Referees Association (ARAF), on Saturday he will be standing with retired Brig. Gen. Sekamana Jean Damascene. Brig. Gen. Sekamana retired recently from Rwanda Defence Force (RDF). Both aspirants, retired Brig. Gen. Sekamana and Rurangirwa Louis have been active in Rwandan football for some time. The Executive Committee will be elected on Saturday, March 31, at Lemingo Hotel and the newly elected president will have a four-year term renewable three times only.   380 times! Share this: