Important news for the heavy lifting sector Damen Anchor & Chain Factory delivers two anchors for the luxury yacht sector 
25 March 2018 
Marking a return to production for the high-end yacht industry, Damen Anchor & Chain Factory (AKF) has delivered two galvanized yacht anchors. AKF carried out the fabrication, Class approved testing, and galvanization of the anchors – each weighing 1080kg – within two weeks of receiving the order. 
Damen AKF is well known for its large stock of anchors and chains for the commercial shipping industry, but its scope of activities go further than that. The company’s expertise also extends to the manufacture of custom-built towing and heavy lift components, which is supported by the much-respected ISO 3834 welding certification. 
Furthermore, AKF personnel possesses the craftsmanship and knowledge from the times that the company produced anchors in-house. It is this wealth of experience that is now being drawn upon in response to the increasing demand from clients in the yacht industry for high-end quality anchors made in the Netherlands. 
All in-house 
“We decided to return to our roots and start producing yacht anchors here in Schiedam, the Netherlands. Production of yacht anchors is for a large part about the small details, and in-house production allows us to be on top of the whole process,” says Laurens van Gelder, Managing Director of AKF. 
Production of these two yacht anchors began with delivery of the steel plating from metalworking company Kroon Metal Technology. “And then, within one week of ordering the material, the anchors were ready for Class inspection, weld checking, and proof load testing on our own test benches before delivery to the client,” Mr Van Gelder adds. 
“We have four Lloyds-approved test benches for this – where we can carry out proof and break loading from 5 to 2,000 tonnes.” 
Proud tradition 
When fabricating a product for the yacht sector, the quality of the finished product goes well beyond mere functionality. “Looks are obviously very important, so these anchors have a high quality hot-dipped galvanized finish.” 
“Over the years the Netherlands has earned an international reputation for high quality yacht building. This tradition is alive and well and we are proud to be part of it,” notes Mr Van Gelder. “Schiedam is not only the place to go for the best Dutch jenever and gin – it is also where to buy world-class high-end yacht anchors. 
Damen Shipyards Group 
Damen Shipyards Group operates 34 shipbuilding and repair yards, employing 10, 000 people worldwide. Damen has delivered more than 6,000 vessels in more than 100 countries and delivers some 160 vessels annually to customers worldwide. Based on its unique, standardised ship-design concept Damen is able to guarantee consistent quality. 
Damen’s focus on standardisation, modular construction and keeping vessels in stock leads to short delivery times, low ‘total cost of ownership’, high resale values and reliable performance. Furthermore, Damen vessels are based on thorough R&D and proven technology. 
Damen offers a wide range of products, including tugs, workboats, naval and patrol vessels, high speed craft, cargo vessels, dredgers, vessels for the offshore industry, ferries, pontoons and superyachts. 
For nearly all vessel types Damen offers a broad range of services, including maintenance, spare parts delivery, training and the transfer of (shipbuilding) know-how. Damen also offers a variety of marine components, such as nozzles, rudders, anchors, anchor chains and steel works. 
Damen Shiprepair & Conversion (DSC) has a worldwide network of eighteen repair and conversion yards of which twelve are located in North West Europe. Facilities at the yards include more than 50 floating and (covered) drydocks, the largest of which is 420 x 90 metres, as well as slopes, ship lifts and indoor halls. Projects range from the smallest simple repairs through Class’ maintenance to complex refits and the complete conversion of large offshore structures. DSC completes around 1,300 repair and maintenance jobs annually, both at yards as well as in ports and during voyage. 
For further information please contact 
Ben Littler 
31 (0) 183 65 5546 
31 (0) 610 46 5742