Scott Quigg “not really arsed” with Carl Frampton rematch By Joe O'Neill | on March 26, 2018 | Headline News Opponent Watch 
For the first time since his February 2016 defeat to Carl Frampton, Scott Quigg has gone cold on a Jackal rematch. 
Since that points defeat in a mega Sky Box Office event, the Bury man has been constantly calling for a return. 
The featherweight fighter, who is now trained by former Bernard Dunne, Dean Byrne and Jamie Kavanagh coach Freddie Roach has made no secret of his desire to avenge the Manchester Arena-hosted defeat. 
Indeed, in the two years since the admittedly dour fight, Quigg has been single-minded in his desire for a return innings, stating that world titles were irrelevant in the equation and outlining his willingness to travel to Frampton’s home city of Belfast. Widgets Magazine 
However, speaking in the wake of his WBO featherweight title defeat to Oscar Valdez earlier this month, the Matchroom puncher has claimed he no longer too pushed with regard to a Frampton rematch 
Asked by WBN if he is still chasing a rematch with Frampton, Quigg claimed that “I’m not really arsed, if it happens, it happens.” 
“He beat me, and I want to avenge that loss but if it doesn’t then it’s not because of me not wanting it. I aim to become a world champion again and if that happens then I’m sure it could happen.” 
The comments may have to be taken into context and it seems likely that they are linked to Frampton’s Sunday Life column which he used to criticise his former foe. 
The two-weight world champion was extremely critical of the fact Quigg weighed in almost three pounds (2.8) over the 126lbs featherweight limit and subsequently refused to do a check-weight the following morning in Los Angeles. 
Frampton believed out the move was disrespectful and questioned the validity of claims that a foot injury had prevented Quigg from making weight. 
Quigg was angered by Frampton’s words and has since responded strongly . Indeed, it would be reasonable to conclude that his declaring a lack of real interest in a rematch may be coming from a position of anger rather than this being his true stance. 
Frampton faces Nonito Donaire on April 21st at the SSE Odyssey Arena in Belfast, while Quigg is currently recovering from a broken nose suffered versus Valdez. 
The Englishman’s war with the Mexican has directly impacted Frampton, with Quigg breaking the champion’s jaw – like Frampton had done to him – and ensuring that Valdez will spend an extended period of time on the sidelines. 
Subsequently, the WBO have created an interim featherweight title which will go on the line next month for Frampton v Donaire. 
Photo Credit: Ricardo Guglielminotti – The Fighting Irish (@ThefIrish) Share this: