The Rainmaker Group Kicks Off 2018 with Record-Setting Performance Company experiences astounding sales increase of 187 percent year-over-year 
ALPHARETTA, GA – The Rainmaker Group (Rainmaker), a leading provider of cloud-based hospitality revenue and profit optimization software, today announced that it has kicked off 2018 with record-breaking performance and growth. In January alone, the company experienced a sales increase of 187 percent year-over-year. In addition, the company's service revenue, which includes pricing services and revenue best practices consulting, showed an increase of 107 percent. 
In January and February, Rainmaker expanded its reach in both the number of customers and the number of properties using its state-of-the-art solution suite, which includes guestrev®, grouprev®, revcaster ® and revintel ®. Its grouprev and guestrev solutions led the way in deployments, with grouprev showing a 35 percent increase year-over-year and guestrev showing a 31 percent increase for the same period. 
Among the customers that recently selected Rainmaker solutions are: Golden Casino Group in Las Vegas; Omni Hotels & Resorts in Dallas; The Scottsdale Plaza Resort in Scottsdale, Ariz.; and Solis Two Porsche Drive in Atlanta. These customers are using Rainmaker's cloud-based solutions to streamline operations, optimize revenue and secure the most profitable guests. 
"Partnering with Rainmaker was a great decision for us," said Tamara Gunn, director of revenue management at Solis Two Porsche Drive, a 214-room luxury property that recently went live with guestrev . "The company really listened to our needs and responded with a solution that will help us understand demand and take a strategic approach to setting rates. This, in turn, will help us increase overall profitability and strengthen our competitive advantage." 
The Scottsdale Plaza Resort also recently implemented the guestrev solution. "We're excited about the possibilities that guestrev brings to our property," said Gilberto Aguirre, director of revenue management at the 400-room luxury hotel. "It will enable us to assess the value of each guest based on all available revenue streams, including food and beverage, wellness and retail. It also will take demand uncertainty into consideration, resulting in both top- and bottom-line growth and a rapid ROI." 
In February, Hotel Tech Report named Rainmaker's revcaster solution its top-rated market intelligence software based on data from thousands of hoteliers in more than 40 countries. More than 100 hotel technology products competed for a chance to win the prestigious title. Rainmaker also was included in the recent Hotel Tech Report list of 'Top 10 Places to Work in Hotel Tech'. 
Rainmaker's leading-edge revenue and profit optimization product suite includes: guestrev , an intuitive and easy-to-use revenue management solution that analyzes total guest value across a hotel or casino property to forecast and price rooms; grouprev , an innovative group pricing solution that streamlines the process of responding to group RFPs by analyzing historical data, future demand, and price sensitivity to recommend the best pricing for group business; revcaster , a powerful rate shopping tool that gives hoteliers access to real-time actionable market data, so that rates can be set against the competitive landscape; and revintel , an intuitive business intelligence solution that improves day-to-day revenue management by mining various data sets and providing deep insights at a granular level. 
"Our record-setting performance at the start of this year underscores our deep commitment both to our customers and products," said Tammy Farley, president of The Rainmaker Group. "We constantly have our eye on platform innovation and ways in which we can deliver more powerful solutions to our clients. And, as the hospitality industry evolves, we continue to strengthen our product suite to meet – and exceed – our customers' revenue goals." 
Contact