Top Cork amateur turns professional By Joe O'Neill   Headline News 
A top teenage amateur fighter has made the big move to the pro game. 
2016 Intermediate champion and two-time Elite Senior runner-up Thomas McCarthy has put pen to paper on a management deal with Boxing Ireland Promotions and will now start to punch for pay. 
The Cork 19-year-old was last month beaten on a contentious split-decision in the bantamweight final of the Elite Senior Championships by Evan Metcalfe – whose brother, Aiden, he now becomes a pro stablemate of. 
McCarthy was left devastated by the result and the charismatic stylist – who featured in both ‘The Young Offenders’ movie and TV series – has chosen to ditch the vest and go pro. Widgets Magazine 
Over the years Mayfield’s McCarthy has spent time training at the Celtic Warriors Gym in Dublin alongside world-ranked Cork middleweight Spike O’Sullivan and last year had revealed that he had turned down a number of offers to turn pro but has now made the move. 
Boxing Ireland’s Stephen Sharpe said that “Tommy is an exceptional young talent and I’m delighted he has chosen Boxing Ireland Promotions.” 
“We have had regular contact with Tommy over the last 12 months discussing the pros and cons of the transition from amateur to professional boxing. We will always be straight with fighters and advise the younger lads to stay amateur as long as possible.” 
“He heeded our advice and stuck with the amateurs, reaching his second senior final, which is an incredible achievement considering he is just 19 years of age.” 
“He is now ready to make the change, it’s what he really wants and so begins a new exciting chapter for Tommy and Boxing Ireland Promotions.” 
“The kid has exceptional ability and will no doubt be one of the most exciting additions to Irish professional boxing in recent times.” 
McCarthy joins his cousin, lightweight Dean O’Connell, in the Boxing Ireland stable along with Cork-based South African Jade Karam and Limerick light middle Graham McCormack. 
Indeed, such has been the influx of Munster signings recently, it would seem like a show in Cork could be on the horizon – a first pro show in the Rebel County since the Summer of 2010. 
A debut date for McCarthy will be confirmed shortly. 
Photo Credit: Ricardo Guglielminotti – The Fighting Irish (@ThefIrish) Share this: