Quota voor buitenlandse studenten: in Oostenrijk en Wallonië kan het wél Artificial intelligence with a human mind 26 Mrtch 2018 - 14:03 
Moving towards the end of your studies can be a stressful time. 
Of course, there is the dreaded thesis, a task so big that sometimes it can be hard to see the light at the end of the tunnel. But even worse are the moments when you are able to think beyond your graduation. Because after that, the inevitable moment will follow where you will have to find a place in the real world, where you will no longer get extra credit just for showing up. 
This realisation can give way to a whole realm of existential crises and insecurities. How am I ever supposed to sell myself to a potential employer, when I actually have zero belief in my own potential? 
But during these crises, when I am about halfway through my tub of ice cream, my face covered in a mix of chocolate and tears, I remember William Willett. Willett is often credited with the proposal of Daylight Savings Time. You may think that Willett must have been a great scientist, who had conducted extensive research into the topic. Or perhaps a great titan of industry, who proposed the shift in time to save on resources used to generate light. 
But no. 
Willett was actually a builder. He came up with the idea of Daylight Savings Time early in the morning, when he observed how many Londoners slept through a large part of most summer days. In addition to this, he was annoyed about having to cut his golfing rounds short in the evenings, when the sun would go down. So basically, this man, who wasn’t really in any position to make any such proposal in the first place, suggested we move time so he could finish his golf round. 
Now if a London builder can be arrogant enough to suggest that the entire country should get up an hour early, just because he thinks one should get up when the sun comes up and because he wants to finish his evening golf sessions, and not even be laughed in the face for it, then really, there should be no limit to the things we can achieve. Forget about your qualifications (or lack thereof). Just go into the world and make it dance to your own tune. If William Willett can do it, anyone can!