Rolls-Royce Joins Boeing and Singapore Airlines to Celebrate Deliver of 1st Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner Rolls-Royce Joins Boeing and ... Rolls-Royce Joins Boeing and Singapore Airlines to Celebrate Deliver of 1st Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner 
Rolls-Royce today joined Boeing and Singapore Airlines to celebrate the delivery of the first Boeing 787-10 Dreamliner, powered by Trent 1000 engines. 
Goh Choon Phong, CEO, Singapore Airlines, Kevin McAllister, President and CEO of Boeing Commercial Airplanes, and Dominic Horwood, Director – Customers and Services, Civil Aerospace, Rolls-Royce, attended a formal aircraft handover ceremony at Boeing’s facility in North Charleston, South Carolina, USA. 
The aircraft is powered by the latest version of the Trent 1000, the Trent 1000 TEN (Thrust, Efficiency and New Technology), which incorporates new technologies and delivers higher thrust as well as increased efficiency. The engine contributes to the Dreamliner achieving 20 per cent greater efficiency than the aircraft it replaces, as well as halving the noise footprint of previous-generation aircraft. Related Research on ASDReports.com: Global Commercial Aircraft Turbofan Engines Market - 2018-2036 
The ceremony marks a significant milestone for Rolls-Royce as it continues to support the Dreamliner. The Trent 1000 has powered both the first test flight and entry into service of every version of the aircraft - the 787-8, 787-9 and 787-10. 
Goh Choon Phong said: “It is an honour for us to be the world’s first airline to take delivery of this amazing aircraft. The 787-10 is indeed a magnificent piece of engineering and truly a work of art. It will be an important element in our overall growth strategy, enabling us to expand our network and strengthen our operations.” 
Kevin McAllister said: “This is a big day for all of us at Boeing and for our global supplier partners. We are thrilled to deliver the first 787-10 Dreamliner to Singapore Airlines, one of the world's leading carriers. And we are honored by Singapore's partnership and trust, as reflected by their repeated orders for the Dreamliner.” 
Dominic Horwood, said: “We are very proud to have worked with Singapore Airlines and Boeing to deliver the engines for the latest version of the 787 Dreamliner. Today marks another important step forward in our relationship with two highly valued partners and we are excited to once again be celebrating an historic moment for this aircraft.” 
Trent 1000 – incredible engineering by numbers: The front fan sucks in up to 1.3 tonnes of air every second at take-off High pressure turbine blades inside the engine rotate at 12,500 rpm, with their tips reaching 1,200mph – nearly twice the speed of sound At take off each of the engine’s high-pressure turbine blades generates around 800 horsepower - similar to the power produced by a Formula One racing car At full power, air leaves the nozzle at the back of the engine travelling at almost 1000mph Source: Rolls Royce