Digital Transformation for Government Summit Digital Transformation for ... Digital Transformation for Government Summit 
The 2018 Digital Transformation for Government Summit will allow members of the DoD, Federal Government, Private Industry, Academia, and other relevant stakeholders to discuss the strategies, capabilities and innovative applications towards optimizing and transforming their respective IT ecosystem in a manner that places the user at the center, and embraces the notions of agility and openness. Firewall as a Service Market - Global Forecast to 2022 2018 Topic Areas to Include: Leadership strategies and organizational changes for undertaking an effective and efficient digital transformation that reduces operational costs, improves the user experience, and aligns IT with business strategy -Embracing modern management practices: Using an agile methodology, and open-source development for enterprise-level interoperability -Putting human-centered design into the heart of service transformation dialogue Exploring various technologies to support IT infrastructure modernization: including data center virtualization, software-defined networks (SDN), network function virtualization (NFV), cloud, and automation - Cloud strategy: striking the right balance between on-premise and off-premise cloud solutions Strategic Approaches to Big Data analytics in a digital transformation: What problem or insight are agencies trying to solve or achieve through the use of big data analytics? What does the supporting IT infrastructure and security strategies need to look like to support the data? Transformation to support a customer-centric government: User-centric design and how it can positively impact the perception and use of public-facing services Strategies for improving website functionality and product design to create a seamless online and offline experience for users: crowdsourcing ideas through competitions, hackathons, user-centered design, and co-creation 
Background: 
There is no one singular solution to be found for an organization to ''digitally transform'' itself. Rather, it is a multitude of disciplines and capabilities that must work holistically in order to achieve efficient and effective outcomes. From leadership and management strategies that embrace processes such as agile methodologies and open source development, to IT design and an enterprise infrastructure that is user-centric, innovative and fast. It takes an understanding of not only what are the current problems to be fixed, but what is actually trying to be achieved? The highly anticipated legislation to modernize the federal government’s aging information technology infrastructure is now law with the passing of the Modernizing Government Technology Act. So now what? How will agencies move forward in their evolving digital transformation? What is the role that industry will and can play? What will this mean for their end-users, and how will this help improve their overarching mission? Join us in May to help answer these questions and learn about our Government's Senior Leader's path forward. 

Why You Should Attend: 
Our team specializes in the extensive research and development of our Summits' content and focus areas, and we will assemble the most respected minds in the IT communities, as well as key policy-makers across military and civilian offices. Our non-partisan approach allows us to reach across all services and organizations to bring together a truly holistic group of decision makers and solution providers. This Summit will encourage discussion among senior leaders with the common goal of diriving the successful digital transformation for government agencies. Join us in an honest, closed to the press, and non-attribution discussion to understand the significance of this journey and what the future may hold.