SAIC Awarded Training Support Systems - Enterprise Contract by US Army SAIC Awarded Training Support ... SAIC Awarded Training Support Systems - Enterprise Contract by US Army 
The U.S. Army Mission and Installation Contracting Command – Fort Eustis awarded Science Applications International Corp. (NYSE: SAIC) the Training Support Systems - Enterprise (TSS-E) contract to provide networked, integrated, and interoperable training support capabilities to active duty, reserve, and national guard soldiers, units, commands and installations located throughout the Continental and Outside the Continental U.S. 
“SAIC has pioneered live, virtual, constructive training solutions for more than a decade. We are proud to bring our high-level expertise to TSS-E to assist in their primary core areas,” said Jim Scanlon, SAIC senior vice president and general manager of the Defense Systems Customer Group. 
The indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity contract has a five-year ordering period and a ceiling value of more than $554 million. SAIC is one of seven awardees. Related Research on ASDReports.com: 
The contract is for the development, delivery, and enablement of an operationally relevant and totally integrated Live, Virtual, Constructive, and Gaming (LVC&G) training environment for warfighters through the Army’s TSS Enterprise products, services, and facilities worldwide. 
These training services and solutions fall into five major task areas: Sustainable Range Program (SRP) Mission Complex and the Army’s Live, Virtual, Constructive, Integrating-Architecture (LVC-IA) Soldier Training Training Development 
“Our team brings technical strength and experience from designing integrated training environments for the Army and others. Our solutions leverage our strategic alliances to integrate the latest simulation technology and innovations in learning science to deliver mission relevant and efficient training solutions,” said Josh Jackson, SAIC senior vice president and general manager of the Engineering, Integration, and Mission Solutions Market Segment. Source: Science Applications International Corp. Date: Mar 23, 2018