Finance / A loan to a legal person: it may affect the prompt receipt of money 
For business development loans can be considered very convenient banking service. Hard to do your own money to buy new equipment, pay large quantities of goods or investments in promising investment project. Numerous banking institutions ready to help in corporate financing, providing a loan to a legal entity. 
To prepare the package of documents required for processing the loan can take a long time. In order for the loan to a legal entity was approved by the Bank in the shortest possible time at the preparation of the necessary papers to follow a few rules. 
The financial statements of a legal entity, that the organization will demand in a mandatory manner, have to record stable profit. And the size it needs a little bit, but to grow from one reporting period to another. Positive dynamics – a pledge that the company successfully developed and issued a credit to the legal entity will not be in jeopardy of nonpayment. 
A Favorable impression on your Bank will do a solid number in the asset balance. Property, inventory, securities, investments in other businesses – all this will contribute to a quick decision on lending. 
If the company had resorted to loans, the availability of long-term borrowings in the balance sheet may also prove to be a positive factor when considering applications for new credit. This may indicate the trustworthiness of the company. Especially if the loan is designed for a long period of time. 
Which Bank is more profitable to place the loan application? Any of the nearly 900 Russian institutions provides loans to legal entities. Rates depend on duration and type of loan. Most beneficial for the borrower may be appeal to “native” the Bank. A loan to a legal entity that is under maintenance for extended periods of time in the particular institution, may be issued on preferential terms. 
Thus, for example, works successfully with its corporate clients Sberbank. Loans to legal entities here are issued not only according to traditional schemes, but also with regard to specific industries: defense industry, farmers, the mining industry. 
The Existence of regular and significant settlement account turnover indicates that the company operates in normal mode. Doubt the Bank's solvency of the client will disappear by themselves. Considering the credit application of his client, a financial institution, as a rule, loyal to the favourable terms of lending. 
Another important aspect that everyone should know when applying to the Bank. Nothing will spoil the impression made upon bankers as spoiled credit history. One day of delay at the current payment may nullify all the efforts in making new loans. Therefore, cash flow planning should occur so that a loan payment was made on time. 