Legendary Creator Frank Miller and Writer/Producer Thomas Wheeler to Reimagine Arthurian Legend, From the Perspective of the Lady of the Lake, In Debut Young Adult Novel Cursed will be illustrated by Miller and will release in Fall 2019 from Simon & Schuster Books for Young Readers NEW YORK – WEBWIRE – Monday, 
Simon & Schuster Books for Young Readers will publish the debut young adult novel by legendary artist, director, writer, and producer Frank Miller, who will illustrate, and acclaimed writer/producer Thomas Wheeler, who will write. Tentatively titledа Cursed , the project reimagines the King Arthur legend from the point of view of sixteen-year-old NimueЧthe young woman who first wielded Excalibur and became the all-powerful Lady of the Lake.а Cursedа will feature full-color and black and white illustrations, and will be published in hardcover, audio, and eBook. Justin Chanda, Vice President and Publisher of Simon & 
УI have always been entranced by the mythological Arthur storyЧand by Nimue, in particular,Ф Frank Miller said. УIt can be interpreted in any number of waysЧfrom a delightful childrenТs story, as inа The Sword in the Stone , to a terrifying interpretation likeа Excalibur 
УI am honored and humbled to be working with the living legend Frank Miller onа Cursed ,Ф Thomas Wheeler said. УI cannot think of a writer-a 
Frank Millerа is regarded as one of the most influential and awarded professionals in the entertainment industry today, known for his intense, hard-boiled storytelling and gritty noir aesthetic across comics, graphic novels, and film. He is best known for his comic book stories andаgraphic novels, includingа Sin City ,а 300 ,а Ronin ,а Daredevil: Born Again ,аandа The Dark Knight Returns . He also created the comic book charactersаElektra, forаMarvel ComicsТ Daredevil series, and Carrie Kelley, forаDC Comics. Miller made his feature film directorial debut in 2005 withа Sin City , the adaptation of his graphic novel, which he codirected with Robert Rodriguez, along with a sequel,а Sin City: A Dame to Kill For . In 2007, Miller served as an executive producer on Zack SnyderТs blockbusterа 300 , also based on his own graphic novel, which went on to gross over $456 million worldwide. In 2008, he wrote and directedа The Spirit , an action fantasy based on the Will Eisner comic book series. In 2015, Miller was inducted into the Eisner Awards Hall of Fame for his lifetime of contributions to the industry. 
Thomas Wheelerа is a producer, author of the adult novelа The Arcanum , and co-writer of Warner BrsТа Lego: Ninjago Movie . He wrote the screenplay forа Puss in Boots , aа Shrek аspin-off, and is currently penning its sequel. He recently sold his original screenplay,а Vostok, аto Paramount Pictures, with Michael Bay attached to direct. He just completed the script for a live-action feature,а Dora the Explorer , with James Bobin attached to direct and a 2019 release date, also for Paramount Pictures. In TV, Wheeler has developed and produced pilots for The CW, NBC, and FOX, as well as the ABC pilot,а Captain CookТs Extraordinary Atlas . He was a consulting producer on the NBC seriesа Surface, аas the creator/executive producer of the critically acclaimed maxi-seriesа Empire , and the creator/executive producer of the superhero dramaа The Cape аfor NBC. 
Simon & Schuster ChildrenТs Publishing , one of the leading childrenТs book publishers in the world, comprises the following imprints: Aladdin, Atheneum Books for Young Readers, Beach Lane Books, Libros para niёos, Little Simonо, Margaret K. McElderry Books, Paula Wiseman Books, Simon & Schuster Books for Young Readers, Simon Pulse, and Simon Spotlightо. While maintaining an extensive award-winning backlist, the division continues to publish acclaimed and bestselling books for children of all ages. Simon & Schuster publishes numerous Caldecott, Newbery, and National Book Award winners. For more information about Simon & Schuster ChildrenТs Publishing, visit our website at www.simonandschuster.com . 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/6/221873/221873-1.jpg )