Kakao unveils 'Kakao 3.0' business strategy Tuesday 27 March 2018 | 07:05 CET | News South Korean mobile messaging service operator Kakao has announced its new business strategy dubbed ‘Kakao 3.0’. Under this plan, Kakao plans to increase synergies among its IT services and expand overseas. One of the key strategies for Kakao 3.0 is to maximize synergies through an integration of Kakao services centering on KakaoTalk, the company said. 
The KakaoTalk mobile messaging app went live in March 2010. The platform was later transformed into a mobile lifestyle platform offering various digital services including games, shopping, mobile payment, mobile money transfer, and digital content. Kakao has recently launched KakaoMelon, a feature which allows KakaoTalk users to share music with their friends while using the messaging app, and Open Chat, where anonymous users can join a chat room at the click of a link. 
Kakao now plans to combine KakaoTalk with other services. By year-end, Kakao plans to launch “Drawer Project,” a voice-activated AI search engine designed to enable users to manage and control all of the digital assets including photos, video clips and schedules they share via KakaoTalk. 
KakaoMini, an artificial intelligence speaker launched in November last year, will be upgraded with new features of making calls, translating and controlling home IoT gadgets. Kakao will continue to develop its AI platform Kakao I and unveil its AI development platform Kakao I Open Builder in the second half of this year. Kakao also plans to introduce AI-backed services it made available in association with Hyundai Motor Group, GS E&C and POSCO E&C within this year. 
Kakao also plans to enhance its IP-based content business including web comics, web novels, games and movies, and enter the international market with its proprietary digital content. Kakao will seek mutual growth with content providers and establish joint investment and cooperation system among Kakao companies. Kakao will expand the list of well-made IP content for multiple uses, such as comics based on novels and film based on comics. Kakao intends to expand beyond its strategic market, Japan, into China and Southeast Asia. At the same time, Kakao plans to acquire content companies with USD 1 billion raised from the GDR offerings last year. 
Kakao has also announced its plan to develop its own blockchain technology platform within the year. Ground X, Kakao’s newly established subsidiary specializing in blockchain, will explore the service in Asia. Ground X will open its blockchain platform to the public, explore ways to leverage R&D and investment to ensure further growth, and offer new blockchain-based services combined with Kakao’s existing services. Ground X will support events including training, hackathon and conferences. Jason Han, former CTO of FuturePlay, a local startup accelerator, is named CEO of Ground X.  