No one’s laughing now – Darragh Foley issues World Title war cry By irishboxing | on March 19, 2018 | Headline News 
Not long after he registered a career-best win, Darragh Foley [15(8)-2(0)] was belting out another war cry. 
The Blanchardstown light welterweight defeated outpointed Canadian Steven Wilcox in a WBA world title eliminator to take a significant step toward on new champion Kiryl Relikh. 
‘Super’ now has the Belorussian in his sights and called for everyone to get behind his World title assault. 
Foley, who ‘unified’ the WBA Oceania and WBA-NABA rankings titles with victory in the Star Casino in Sydney on Saturday morning, is adamant 2018 will be his year. Widgets Magazine 
“Two years ago, when I first got ranked, I started saying that I was coming for the number one and everyone laughed,” he said after victory over the slick Canadian. 
“Here I am, top five now, is it still [a joke], or is it reality? This year is going to be my year.” 
“Believe it, get behind me, I’m going to do this for everyone. I believe it so vividly, I am going to get there, trust me. I will give everything.” 
Reflecting on a career-best win, the big punching light welter described how “I felt on fire in there, I could have done another twelve.” 
“I’d like to thank Steven Wilcox and his team for coming over, they’re good stand-up people and I’m sure they’ll have a Guinness with us after,” he added – which they did 
Indeed Foley – who visibly hurt Wilcox in the eighth and the tenth – felt he could have registered stoppage win number nine if he had upped the pressure somewhat. 
The Australian based Dubliner suggested some playing to the crowd ironically cost him a crowd-pleasing knockout. 
The 29-year-old noted how “I should have really stepped on the gas. I think I hurt him a bit, as he said, I play up to the crowd and I was.” 
“Stupid me, I should have stepped on the gas, but I wanted to put on a show. All these people came out and bought tickets, they probably prefer to see some boxing than me doing salsa, but you live and learn,” he continued before signing off with “you’ll never beat the Irish especially not on St Patrick’s Day!” Share this: