Supplier News 27 March 2018 Newport Hospitality Group Selects Broadvine to Optimize their Portfolio Performance 
Raleigh, NC – Broadvine, a leader in financial performance management software, announced today that it is implementing its cloud-based application to optimize hotel profitability for Newport Hospitality Group, one of the premier hospitality management groups in the Eastern United States. 
Broadvine's application provides accurate and reliable budgets and forecasts, real-time data and automated expense and labor management. By consolidating data from various PMS, benchmarking systems, labor systems, and their accounting platform, Newport Hospitality Group will be able to easily view and analyze data and make quicker, more profitable decisions. 
"Newport Hospitality Group is data driven and reviews guest feedback, revenue and expense trends every day," said Shawn Barber, CEO of Broadvine. "Broadvine's suite of applications will allow Newport to deliver on these goals by minimizing the time spent producing and analyzing data – freeing up time to act on the results and engage with guests on property." 
"Broadvine's application will help us continue to drive increased revenues compared to the market and deliver high levels of employee and guest satisfaction," said Wayne West, President of Newport Hospitality Group. "With seven new hotels in the pipeline with major chains such as IHG, Marriott, and Hilton, we are committed to leveraging technology partners such as Broadvine to help us achieve our revenue and growth goals." 
Broadvine delivers financial performance management software to help hotel management companies and ownership groups increase profitability and operational efficiencies across their portfolio. Broadvine's software-as-a-service application consists of Reporting, Forecasting, Labor, and Expenses Management modules – providing a robust and flexible platform. About Newport Hospitality Group 
Located in Williamsburg, Virginia is a leading hotel management company specializing in select and full-service hotels. They operate more than 40 hotels in the Eastern United States with a diverse portfolio including Candlewood Suites, Holiday Inn Express, Hilton Garden Inn, Homewood, Hampton Inn, Hyatt Place, Courtyard by Marriott, SpringHill Suites, Fairfield Inn & Suites, Residence Inn, TownePlace Suites, Sleep Inn, and Comfort Inn & Suites and Days Inn. About Broadvine 
Broadvine delivers financial performance management software to help hotel management companies and ownership groups increase profitability and operational efficiencies across their portfolio. Broadvine's software-as-a-service application consists of Reporting, Forecasting, Labor, and Expenses Management modules – providing a robust and flexible platform. Broadvine is utilized by 25 management companies and almost 1000 properties worldwide. For more information, visit www.broadvine.com . 
Contact