26 March 2018, 19:47 Lawyers advise law enforcers to ask Kadyrov about Shaa Turlaev 
After the video of Kadyrov with Shaa Turlaev, law enforcers should go to Chechnya, detain the latter and check the actions of the head of Chechnya himself, the lawyers Tumas Misakyan and Vadim Prokhorov have stated. 
  24, Ramzan Kadyrov posted a video depicting him with the former Chechen separatist Shaa Turlaev , where Kadyrov calls him "the best of the best." Shaa Turlaev is on the federal wanted list on suspicion of involvement in resonant murders and assassination attempts, the "Novaya Gazeta" reported on the same day. 
Shaa Turlaev, also known as "Sedoi" (Grey-Haired) was one of the key figures in the First and Second Chechen Wars. In 2004, he surrendered under Kadyrov's guarantees and was amnestied. His name was mentioned in connection with a number of high-profile murders and murder attempts, including the killing of Umar Israilov, a former Kadyrov's security, and the attempt on Isa Yamadaev, Kadyrov's enemy. 
If Shaa Turlaev is wanted, operative agents must urgently go to Chechnya and capture him, Tumas Misakyan believes, adding that Ramzan Kadyrov's actions are a violation of the law. 
Investigators should summon Ramzan Kadyrov for interrogation and evaluate his actions, Vadim Prokhorov , who represents the interests of Zhanna Nemtsova, the victim in Boris Nemtsov's murder case. 
"When a person on the federal wanted list appears on Kadyrov's video, investigators must at least question him and check, whether he knew that Turlaev was wanted, and if he did, why had he done that. However, it is obvious that Kadyrov does everything he wants; and the Investigating Committee of Russian Federation won't touch him," Mr Prokhorov has stated, adding that law enforcers begin "slipping", when they come across people from Kadyrov's entourage. 
"Just like in Boris Nemtsov's case, when Ruslan Geremeev, a deputy commander of the Chechen 'Sever' (North) battalion, is living quietly in Chechnya, while he should be detained, same in this case – people are wanted, but they live peacefully in Chechnya. Kadyrov lives by his own rules; and federal authorities are consciously admitting it," Vadim Prokhorov has stated. 
  Gor Aleksanyan   Conflicts; Crime; Politics; Society; Russia; Chechnya; North-Caucasian Federal District All news