*This doesn’t include our 2-5 day processing time. Do you provide tracking information? 
Yes, you will receive an email once your order ships that contains your tracking information. If you haven’t received tracking info within 5 days, please contact us. My tracking says “no information available at the moment”. 
For some shipping companies, it takes 2-5 business days for the tracking information to update on the system. If your order was placed more than 5 business days ago and there is still no information on your tracking number, please contact us. Will my items be sent in one package? 
For logistical reasons, items in the same purchase will sometimes be sent in separate packages, even if you've specified combined shipping. 
If you have any other questions, please contact us and we will do our best to help you out. REFUNDS & RETURNS POLICY Order cancellation 
All orders can be cancelled until they are shipped. If your order has been paid and you need to make a change or cancel an order, you must contact us within 12 hours. Once the packaging and shipping process has started, it can no longer be cancelled. Refunds 
Your satisfaction is our #1 priority. Therefore, if you’d like a refund you can request one no matter the reason. 
If you did not receive the product within the guaranteed time( 45 days not including 2-5 day processing) you can request a refund or a reshipment. 
If you received the wrong item you can request a refund or a reshipment. 
If you do not want the product you’ve received you may request a refund but you must return the item at your expense and the item must be unused. Your order did not arrive due to factors within your control (i.e. providing the wrong shipping address) Your order did not arrive due to exceptional circumstances outside the control of jumayo (i.e. not cleared by customs, delayed by a natural disaster). Other exceptional circumstances outside the control of jumayo.com *You can submit refund requests within 15 days after the guaranteed period for delivery (45 days) has expired. You can do it by sending a message on Contact Us page 
If you are approved for a refund, then your refund will be processed, and a credit will automatically be applied to your credit card or original method of payment, within 14 days. Exchanges 
If for any reason you would like to exchange your product, perhaps for a different size in clothing. You must contact us first and we will guide you through the steps. 
Please do not send your purchase back to us unless we authorise you to do so. Related Products 