Stuttgart/Ismaning, Germany 
"Bosch is working hard to make mobility emissions-free, stress-free, and – not least of all – accident-free." Radio stations in Germany alert listeners to some 2,000 wrong-way drivers every year. Bosch’s wrong-way driver alert has now been integrated into the Antenne Bayern app. Some 250,000 active unique users of the Antenne Bayern app will help a rapid alert to be issued to radio listeners throughout Germany. This cloud-based app warns the wrong-way driver and all road users at risk. 
Bosch and the Antenne Bayern radio station aim to eliminate road fatalities caused by wrong-way drivers. This partnership will allow Antenne Bayern to integrate Bosch’s cloud-based wrong-way driver warning into its app for radio listeners. This beneficial solution rapidly warns both wrong-way drivers and all other road users in the vicinity; a push message gives everybody a chance to react in time. German radio broadcasts warn listeners of approximately 2,000 wrong-way drivers annually. On average, wrong-way drivers kill 20 people in the country each year. Drivers who use exit lanes to enter the freeway account for 46 percent of wrong-way accidents. Nearly one-third of such incidents end after the wrong-way driver has traveled only 500 meters – in the worst case with fatal consequences. Clearly, every second counts when someone drives the wrong way. With the help of the Antenne Bayern app and its 250,000 active unique users, the nationwide radio station can immediately warn listeners throughout the country of hazardous situations caused by wrong-way drivers. This has been made possible thanks to an app function developed by Bosch. Guardian angel in the data cloud 
Cloud connectivity enables the app to issue a warning within seconds – not only to the wrong-way driver, but also to all right-way drivers in the same lane or adjacent ones. Whenever a vehicle approaches a freeway entrance or exit, the wrong-way driver warning system automatically transmits anonymized movement data to the Bosch cloud. Bosch technology then compares the vehicle’s current direction with the permitted direction of travel, which is stored in an online database. If these two pieces of information clash, the system will alert the wrong-way driver to their mistake. In addition, the cloud will warn all connected road users nearby without delay. Cloud communication will cease as soon as a right-way driver leaves the at-risk zone. The more connected vehicles there are, the closer-knit the invisible safety net will become. This, in turn, will enhance the effectiveness of wrong-way driver warnings. Each traffic fatality is one too many 
“Bosch is working hard to make mobility emissions-free, stress-free, and – not least of all – accident-free. Our wrong-way driver warning system shows that we take a comprehensive approach to road safety – and we don’t restrict our thinking to the vehicles only,” says Dr. Volkmar Denner, CEO of Robert Bosch GmbH. “Each traffic fatality is one too many. I’m pleased that together with Antenne Bayern, we are helping to improve traffic safety. We can alert a lot of road users to wrong-way drivers in time. I’m convinced our partnership will prevent fatal accidents.” 
“Bosch is working hard to make mobility emissions-free, stress-free, and – not least of all – accident-free. Our wrong-way driver warning system shows that we take a comprehensive approach to road safety – and we don’t restrict our thinking to the vehicles only.” Dr. Volkmar Denner, CEO of Robert Bosch GmbH 
Ina Tenz, program director and content manager at Antenne Bayern, says: “Bosch’s wrong-way driver warning technology allows us to raise the bar in service for our listeners. We hope this innovation helps our listeners always arrive safely. All our listeners need to do before they drive is open the Antenne Bayern app and leave it on. The app will regularly update them with the latest traffic information. And wrong-way driver warnings will help them stay safer than ever on the road.” 
Regarding the new app function and the teamwork with Bosch, Antenne Bayern’s digital head Sven Rühlicke says, “We hope most of our app users will never receive a wrong-way driver warning. But if they do, the app just might save their lives. That’s why I’m very happy that the efforts of our business development experts have paid off. Especially with regard to legal requirements, they succeeded in bringing the wrong-way driver solution out of the lab and onto roads in Bavaria and elsewhere. I would also like to applaud the excellent collaboration with Bosch’s development team.” 
More information 
Guardian angel from the data heaven 
Mobility Solutions is the largest Bosch Group business sector. According to preliminary figures, its 2017 sales came to 47.4 billion euros, or 61 percent of total group sales. This makes the Bosch Group one of the leading automotive suppliers. The Mobility Solutions business sector pursues a vision of mobility that is accident-free, emissions-free, and stress-free, and combines the group’s expertise in the domains of automation, electrification, and connectivity. For its customers, the outcome is integrated mobility solutions. The business sector’s main areas of activity are injection technology and powertrain peripherals for internal-combustion engines, diverse solutions for powertrain electrification, vehicle safety systems, driver-assistance and automated functions, technology for user-friendly infotainment as well as vehicle-to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communication, repair-shop concepts, and technology and services for the automotive aftermarket. Bosch is synonymous with important automotive innovations, such as electronic engine management, the ESP anti-skid system, and common-rail diesel technology. 
The Bosch Group is a leading global supplier of technology and services. It employs roughly 400,500 associates worldwide (as of December 31, 2017). According to preliminary figures, the company generated sales of 78 billion euros in 2017. Its operations are divided into four business sectors: Mobility Solutions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and Energy and Building Technology. As a leading IoT company, Bosch offers innovative solutions for smart homes, smart cities, connected mobility, and connected industry. It uses its expertise in sensor technology, software, and services, as well as its own IoT cloud, to offer its customers connected, cross-domain solutions from a single source. The Bosch Group’s strategic objective is to create solutions for a connected life, and to improve quality of life worldwide with products and services that are innovative and spark enthusiasm. In short, Bosch creates technology that is “Invented for life.” The Bosch Group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 440 subsidiaries and regional companies in some 60 countries. Including sales and service partners, Bosch’s global manufacturing, engineering, and sales network covers nearly every country in the world. The basis for the company’s future growth is its innovative strength. At 125 locations across the globe, Bosch employs 62,500 associates in research and development. 
Additional information is available online at www.bosch.com , iot.bosch.com , www.bosch-press.com , www.twitter.com/BoschPresse . 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/7/221583/221583-1.jpg )