
“It’s good stuff. Hits you slowly and then makes you soar like superman.” 
I looked around and saw the girls doing one thing or another in their nudity. 
She was staring at me. 
“Is this your first party?” 
I nodded. 
“No wonder you are asking all these hang questions.” 
“Why do you do this?” 
“I’m young. I need to live life before it becomes too serious and I have to be all grown up.” 
“But why the drugs?” 
“Because.” 
“Because what?” 
“Because this is how we roll. Everyone has their poison. If you are not on reef, you do codeine or cocaine or heroin or speed or AZT or ecstasy or royfenol or fentanyl or meth or oxy or worst case you inhale glue and get your high.” 
I stared at her as she inhaled and exhaled languidly. 
“Why the parties?” 
“You get your hit for free here. You have fun. You make good money.” 
“But for you to attend those schools you must be rich.” 
“My parents are not me.” 
“But they give you money.” 
“They pay the tuition and all. Not like they can give me a million in cash.” 
“Do you get a million here?” 
“Well two or three parties can make me that.” 
“Aren’t you afraid of running into your Dad at places like this?” 
“Naaaa… my dad is too square and busy but even if he is not then it is his problem after all he came here for what I came here for so he can’t tell me nothing.” 
I fell silent and watched her inhale and exhale smoke. 
“But you know, your folks put you in schools like that to protect you?” 
“Too protect me?” 
“They are too busy to even bother.” 
“No they are not.” 
“Yes they are. They think the school will be both my teachers and my parents.” 
“I think they are just worried about you getting corrupted.” 
“I was balling like this under their nose and they didn’t even notice. Funny thing is that even the innocent Jane get influenced in school, so what was the use of all the headache of keeping us locked up in all these secondary schools that front as universities.” 
“They did it out of love and with the belief that those schools are way better than the public ones.” 
“Well they fucked up.” 
“Is this an interview or what?” 
“No I am just intrigued.” 
“And I am horny.” 
I fell silent. 
She dragged, exhaled, took a drink from her glass, sucked on one of the ice cubes in her mouth and asked in a whisper. 
“Are you going to do anything about it?” 
– 
The best time to do core parenting is between ages 0-12. You simply cannot afford to be too busy at this stage. Schools, nannies, extra murals cannot replace core parenting at this point. If you are absent in your child’s life at this stage, be sure someone else is shaping your child’s worldview . 
At 12 a child’s curiosities are set. And they spend their teenage years exploring those curiosities and fantasies and experimenting with their identities. 
If you attempt core parenting in teenage years, you will meet a brick wall and you might end up with a fractious relationship with your teen. 
Your best mode as a parent of a teenager is to “befriend” them. At this stage you can’t take anything for granted you will have to earn their trust. Seek to influence them not control at this point. They will resist control but will respond wonderfully to influence: yours or the streets. 
Every Nigerian parents needs to read this. So share it and continue sharing it. Its very important. Share this: 