Putin secures fourth presidential term: What’s next? Mon 19 Mar 2018 On March 18 th Russian voters re-elected Vladimir Putin as President. According to official Kremlin results, Putin received around 77% of the votes, while Pavel Grudinin of the Communist Party and Vladimir Zhirinovsky of the Liberal Democratic Party trailed by 12% and 5%. The rest of the opposition candidates received around 1% of the votes. The Kremlin was initially aiming for a so-called 70/70 win, with Putin gaining 70% of the votes with a 70% voter turnout. Giving his broad mandate the necessary legitimacy. Preliminary results show a 67% voter turnout. Nonetheless is Putin’s popularity widespread in Russia. The incumbent president didn’t even personally campaign for his re-election. With his fourth term secured, the question is: What will happen in the coming years? Legitimization ritual Nobody doubted that Putin would be re-elected . The elections in Russia are according to Kremlin watcher and Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) reporter Brian Whitmore a legitimization ritual. The Kremlin has tried to get as many people to the polls as possible to show Russia and the world that Putin’s mandate is legitimate. The focus of the campaign was therefore not so much on Putin, but on the electoral process itself. Several Kremlin sponsored videos and posters were urging voters to go to the polls. Putin himself was notably absent from the campaign. Going even so far that no official electoral platform was launched. In the current political climate Putin was the only serious candidate, his popularity and support is nonetheless genuine. The antagonistic stance with the West has many Russians convinced that a strong president is needed in Russia. With tight state control over media and society, no opposition candidate had a chance. Many Russians like to make the comparison between the ‘’organized’’ Putin years and the ‘’chaotic’’ Yeltsin era, fuelling the need for a man like Putin. The date of the election was also a firm reminder of Putin’s success. The election coincided with the 4 th anniversary of the annexation of Crimea. In most voting districts Putin received at least 64% of the votes. Nonetheless the Kremlin didn’t get the voter turnout they hoped for. The projected 70% wasn’t reached. Especially in Moscow and Saint-Petersburg, the turnout was low with around 55%. Most of the people who went to the polls were according to an exit poll above 45 years. Only 9% of the eligible voters between 18 and 25 showed up. Signalling the fatigue of the younger generation with the existing system. ‘I think it is useless, because the results will in any case be clear’’ one eligible voter told RFE-RL. Many instances of fraud were reported. Independent election monitor Golos said it had received reports of 2,742 alleged violations, including ballot boxes placed out of sight of observation cameras and observers being blocked from carrying out their job. Several bizarre videos were published on social media. Putin's platform The closest thing that Putin did that resembled a campaign event, was the annually ‘’State of Nation’’ speech before a joint session of the Russian Parliament. Normally this speech is delivered by the Russian president in December, but this year the Kremlin rescheduled the speech to only 18 days before the presidential elections. Putin’s domestic message was mainly focused on his self-proclaimed success as president and quick progress. “Today, Russia ranks among the world’s leading nations with a powerful foreign economic.” The Russian president showed a positive narrative of society. With Russia’s recourses and industrial capacity, welfare for everybody is just around the corner according to Putin. He promised that in the coming six years technology and innovation would create more prosperity and security. According to Putin more than 30 million Russians have been lifted from poverty since 2000. Putin claims to focus more on democratization in Russia. “In order to move forward and to develop dynamically, we must expand freedom in all spheres, strengthen democratic institutions, local governments, civil society institutions and courts.” In his speech Putin took on a harsh tone against the United States. He blamed the United States for making the world more unstable by abandoning certain Cold War era principles like the Anti-Ballistic Missile treaty. In reaction to this narrative of worldwide instability, Putin presented a new generation of weapons. Claiming that it would guarantee world peace. 2024 and beyond With a tight grip on Russia and a vague policy, the coming six years will be probably more of the same according to NYT Kremlin watcher Neil MacFarquhar. It is expected by many analysts that the coming six years will be crucial for Putin’s grip on the country. Constitutionally Putin isn’t eligible to seek another term in 2024. During a late night interview after the election Putin told reporters he would not seek another term. But, “nobody here expects him to retire to fishing,” said Vladimir Frolov, a Moscow-based analyst and former Russian diplomat. The Russian state that Putin formed in the last decades could potentially also form a threat for Putin and his allies in a post-Putin Russia. Putin needs a safety net in 2024. What will happen instead divides the analysts. It is possible that Putin will try to pull of another “Medvedev switch”. In 2008 Putin faced the same constitutional constrains. He appointed the younger prime minister Medvedev as his successor. Instead he became the shadow president behind Medvedev in the role of prime minister. It his highly questionable of such as trick would work a second time. In the first place, Putin would be 77 when he will be eligible for re-election in 2030. The aging leader could face stiff opposition from his potential placeholder. The recent decision by the communist party in China to lift the presidential term limit, could potentially also be done in Russia. In recent years the Kremlin has bolstered the image of Putin as the right man. Constitutional changes aren’t unthinkable. In 2008, the presidential term was already prolonged from 4 to 6 years. Nonetheless the Kremlin tried to uphold the image of legitimacy and democracy. A possible presidency for life could undermine this. A gradual transition of power in the Kremlin itself in the coming years is also possible. Putin would be save if he could appoint a successor that would be loyal to his cause and him personally. With him retaining the ultimate control over his potential successor, Putin would remain the most powerful man in country. The possible pitfall would be that infighting in the Kremlin could emerge. The coming six years will prove essential for Putin’s power and legacy. Political reactions The prospect of six more years Putin was both praised and criticized. Alexei Navalny’s movement, often credited as Russia’s real opposition, reacted with constrain. A spokesman said they would focus on the long term game, but would closely follow fraud cases. “If we determine that there have been widespread falsifications and law breaking, then perhaps there will be protests like in 2011.” Runner-up Pavel Grudinin called it the most filthy election in recent history. Citing that the Kremlin undermined his campaign and that of other candidates. The outside world also reacted to the Russian elections. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said the election in Russia was not a "fair political competition," according to European values and that Russia would "remain a difficult partner." Leader of the largest fraction in the European Parliament , Manfred Weber (European People’s Party), put it more bluntly by stating that Putin’s way was “threatening our way of life”. While most Western leaders remained silent, China, Iran and Bolivia congratulated Putin with his victory. “Russia respects the dignity of societies and guarantees geopolitical equilibrium against the charge of imperialism,” according to President Evo Morales.