Top 5 superyachts to see at Palm Beach this week 19 March 2018 13:00 Written by Charl van Rooy 
Each year, one of the largest events on the superyacht calendar takes place in Palm Beach, Florida. The 2018 Palm Beach International Boat Show promises to live up to the standard set over the past few years as an impressive fleet of large superyachts is gathering in one of America’s wealthiest neighbourhoods. Here is a taste of just some of the yachts you can expect to line the docks from Thursday 22 March to Sunday 25 March 2018. 
Horizon FD87 Skyline 
The latest in the Taiwanese shipyard’s line-up is this blue-hulled pocket rocket. Named Skyline, the yacht will make her U.S debut this week after being officially unveiled at a local event held in the new year by Horizon. 
Lady S Photo: Charl van Rooy / SuperYacht Times 
Built by Amels in 2006, Lady S is a fully customised motor yacht commissioned by an experienced client who tasked Walter Franchini to design both the interior and exterior of the vessel. In 2016 she underwent a major maintenance period during which the entire exterior of the yacht was repainted and her professional crew is keeping her in launch-day condition. 
Azimut Grande 35 
Azimut’s new flagship, the Grande 35 builds on the Italian brand’s composite skills to deliver a vessel with a unique carbon fibre superstructure and GRP hull combination. The raised pilothouse layout offers the best of interior space and wheelhouse visibility – all wrapped up in a sleek and sporty package. 
Westport 112 Photo: Merijn de Waard 
First revealed in Miami last month, Westport will be in Palm Beach this week with their newly restyled W112 model. The new design introduced larger portholes in the hull as well as a larger window surface area on the main deck, making the interior even brighter than before. 
Ocean Alexander 100 
The Ocean Alexander is proving to be one of the Taiwanese builder’s most popular models thanks to a high volume customisable interior and excellent sea keeping capabilities. Come see her for yourself this week in Florida. Advertisement 