Image: Body: 
Oxford Economics recently published a report which credits the Meetings Industry in the US for creating 5.9 million jobs and 845 Billion USD in business sales in 2016. 
Imagine what these numbers are on a global scale. Needless to say, it is a massive industry in which Canada now plays a leading role. 
Mathias Posch, President of Vancouver based company International Conference Services Ltd. (ICS) , took over the Presidency of the International Association of Professional Congress Organizers (IAPCO) at their General Assembly in Tokyo in February of this year. IAPCO is the quality mark for Congress Organizers, as membership in the association requires companies to comply with strict quality guidelines and an ongoing track record of successfully delivering international conferences of a certain size. The association has 118 member companies around the globe, representing around 6,000 meeting professionals. It is a great privilege for Posch and ICS to be leading the association for the next two years and shaping an industry that has massive economic, social and scientific impacts. 
“ I am incredibly honored to head up an association that stands for quality and international collaboration and I will focus strongly on increasing awareness for our industry and expanding our reach ” Posch said during his commencement address. 
In his day job, Posch runs ICS, a Canadian Professional Conference Organizer (PCO) company with offices in North America and Europe. The company has run scientific, medical, law and other conferences in over 70 cities and 40 countries around the globe and is currently expanding its portfolio in Asia. Asked about his motivation, Posch is quick to respond, 
“ In a world where we talk about raising walls, our industry builds bridges. It is incredibly rewarding to be working in an environment where we assemble the brightest minds of a certain field from all around the globe to work together to tackle some of the greatest challenges of our time ”. 
It is that spirit that drives him to travel the globe to educate young professionals in emerging countries and raise the industry standards for the last several years. Mathias Posch has led seminars and workshops all over Asia as well as in other parts of the world. A combination of his passion for the industry and his willingness to support young and rising talent led to him being selected by his peers to head up one of the meeting industry’s most powerful associations.