source: Kinseth.com 
Kinseth Hospitality Company (KHC) is pleased to announce the official Ribbon Cutting and Grand Opening Celebration took place at the Tru by Hilton in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. The grand opening ceremony for the Tru by Hilton, located at 3900 Westdale Parkway SW, took place on Thursday March 15, 2018 with nearly 275 guests in attendance. To kick-off the event Lisa Rowe of Westdale and Frew Development, Gary Kinseth of Kinseth Hospitality, Cedar Rapids Mayor Brad Hart, and Aaron McCreight of Go Cedar Rapids shared their excitement about the Tru by Hilton hotel in the Westdale Mall area. 
"This hotel is the first of it's kind in the state of Iowa, we're happy to bring this vibrant brand to the Cedar Rapids market." says Gary Kinseth "The hotel offers a truly fun and technology centered experience for guests all at an affordable price." The hotel features a large lobby space with a corner for games/fun which offers a full size pool table along with various board games. Another corner offers a place to work with sound absorbing work pods and a wireless printer. Throughout the lobby you'll also find numerous plug-ins/usb ports along with some secured charging stations so you can stay connected throughout your whole visit. 
About Tru by Hilton Tru by Hilton is a revolutionary midscale hotel brand providing a simplified and spirited approach that is grounded in value for business and leisure travelers. Disrupting the midscale hotel space, Tru by Hilton will offer modern and functional guest rooms and social connectivity with reimagined public spaces, including an open lobby comprised of four zones where guests can work, play, lounge and eat. Designed to appeal cross-generationally, guests will enjoy complimentary amenities including breakfast, coffee and tea; optional mobile check-in and Digital Key; a multifunctional fitness center; and high-speed Wi-Fi. Single-serve wine and beer, fun snacks and light meal options will be available for purchase at a 24/7 retail market. Tru by Hilton is the newest addition to Hilton Worldwide's portfolio of market-leading brands. Learn more at www.trubyhilton.com . 
About Kinseth Hospitality Kinseth Hospitality is a leading hotel management, development and ownership company. KHC has a proven track record of developing and operating award-winning hotels, restaurant and meeting facilities. Kinseth Hospitality is based in North Liberty, Iowa, and currently operates over 65 hotels and 5 branded restaurants in 12 states. 
For more information regarding KHC please contact our Corporate Sales and Marketing Team at 319-626-5600 or visit www.kinseth.com.