4,000 Teachers to Receive Grants from James Patterson and Scholastic Book Clubs as Part of 2018 Classroom Library Campaign New York, NY   
James Patterson will personally donate $2 million to teachers to build classroom libraries this year, in the fourth year of his School Library Campaign. In partnership with Scholastic Book Clubs , this year’s Patterson Pledge program focuses once again on teachers: 4,000 individual recipients will receive grants of $500 and 500 Scholastic Book Club Bonus Points to enhance and supplement their classroom libraries. James Patterson has increased his pledge from $1.75 million in past years to $2 million in 2018 to address the dire need for funding exemplified by last year’s campaign, which drew a record 82,622 applicants – more than three times the amount received in 2015 and 2016 combined. 
Starting today, educators can submit grant applications for this year’s Patterson Pledge at www.scholastic.com/pattersonpartnership 
James Patterson said, “I was humbled to see the overwhelming response to last year’s grant campaign, and I’m happy to to reach even more teachers this time around. I can’t underscore enough how important books and reading are to a child’s development – better readers make better people, and ultimately better citizens. I’m so grateful for the teachers who are doing imperative work with students every day, in every school in the country. These grants are my way of acknowledging their extraordinary efforts.” 
The Patterson Pledge was launched in 2015 as part of an ongoing effort to keep books and reading a priority for children in the United States Research from the Scholastic Teacher & Principal School Report: Equity in Education highlights the need for more support in schools as 31% of teachers reported having fewer than 50 books in their classroom libraries and more than half of teachers (56%) use their own money to purchase books. 
Scholastic Book Clubs’ network of 800,000 teachers are all invited to submit applications, spread the word, and to share #pattersonpledge widely with their colleagues. Each dollar granted will be matched with “Bonus Points,” which can be used to acquire books and other materials through Scholastic Book Clubs for their students and schools. Applications must be submitted by July 31, 2018. 
“Teachers are the real experts at choosing new – and classic – books that are best suited to their students’ interests and reading abilities. Classroom libraries give all students immediate access to those titles, which they need to develop vocabulary, skills, and a love of books and reading. Unfortunately, teachers often have to find their own funds and use their personal money to buy books and build fresh classroom libraries. This is why we at Scholastic Book Clubs are truly inspired by James Patterson’s commitment to offer real help to teachers in this work.” said Judy Newman , President of Scholastic Book Clubs, a division of Scholastic, the global children’s publishing, education, and media company. “Over the course of three years, we have seen this partnership between Scholastic and James Patterson spark a national conversation about the lack of resources educators have to build literacy-rich environments in their classrooms. We are proud and honored to work with James again.” 
To date, Patterson has donated $5.25 million to school libraries through his Scholastic Book Clubs Campaign – this year brings that total to $7.25 million. These grants have been used to purchase new books, add bookshelves, make improvements to catalog systems, and expand programing. The 2018 grants will be awarded on September 6, 2018. All teachers in grades pre-K–12 in U.S. schools can apply for a $500 grant. Patterson hopes that teachers will share their passion for classroom libraries using #pattersonpledge. All monetary funds are being personally donated by James Patterson. 
James Patterson James Patterson is the world’s bestselling author, best known for his many enduring fictional characters and series, including Alex Cross, The Women’s Murder Club, Michael Bennett, Maximum Ride, Middle School, I Funny, Word of Mouse, and Jacky Ha-Ha . Patterson’s writing career is characterized by a single mission: to prove to everyone, from children to adults, that there is no such thing as a person who “doesn’t like to read,” only people who haven’t found the right book. He’s given over a million books away to school kids, over 40 million dollars to support education, and endowed over five thousand college scholarships for teachers. He writes full-time and lives in Florida with his family. Learn more at www.jamespatterson.com 
Scholastic Scholastic Corporation ( NASDAQ: SCHL ) is the world’s largest publisher and distributor of children’s books, a leading provider of core literacy curriculum and professional services, and a producer of educational and entertaining children’s media. The Company creates quality books and ebooks, print and technology-based learning programs for pre-K to grade 12, classroom magazines and other products and services that support children’s learning both in school and at home. With operations in 14 international offices and exports to 165 countries, Scholastic makes quality, affordable books available to all children around the world through school-based book clubs and book fairs, classroom collections, school and public libraries, retail and online. True to its mission of 97 years to encourage the personal and intellectual growth of all children beginning with literacy, the Company has earned a reputation as a trusted partner to educators and families. Learn more at www.scholastic.com . 
( Press Release Image: https://photos.webwire.com/prmedia/6/221610/221610-1.png )