Share on Twitter + 
Director Tigmanshu Dhulia started shooting for his next film Milan Talkies today in Lucknow with its lead cast Ali Fazal, Shraddha Srinath, Reecha Sinha and Deep Raj Rana. Producer Mr. PS Chhatwal, Filmy Keeda Productions, was also present on the set. 
Director Tigmanshu Dhulia said, “The first day of shoot of Milan Talkies has begun. I am excited to tell new story to the audiences. There will be more to talk about as we go further in this journey.” 
Producer Mr. PS Chhatwal, “The mahurat of our next film was officially done today with traditional puja. It has begun on a good note and we will put in our best efforts. I respect Tigmanshu Dhulia as a filmmaker and I am very excited to be producing Milan Talkies. It is a unique love story and I hope the audience will like it. I believe in hard work and with Tigmanshu as the captain of this ship, I am sure the best efforts will be put in to make good cinema.” 
Actor Ali Fazal said, “It is first day of shoot and I am really excited to be joining Milan Talkies in my hometown. It is a big step for me in my career that I am working with Tigmanshu sir and the entire team. I am very excited, a lot of new things will be happening for the first time for all of us. I am working with Shraddha in her first Bollywood film. It feels very weird to be shooting in Lucknow. I’ve lived here, known these gullies, mohallas all my life, never thought I will be shooting here, feels good. This is a unique story and a story which is very close to Tigmanshu sir’s heart. I am really blessed that I am part of it.” 
Actor Shraddha Srinath, “I am very nervous, I may not look but I am very nervous. This is a new industry for me because I come from the South and I don’t know the way things work here but I think it is going to be great. I am very happy and proud to be working with some amazing names. I couldn’t have had a better start to my Bollywood career.” 
Stay tuned for more about this exciting film we hear will be pure romance! Share this: