All About the Toyota Land Cruiser 
It came from Japan to conquer the world — and no, we're not talking about Godzilla. This is the Toyota Land Cruiser, a 4x4 that's been everywhere you can go with four wheels, and even a few places you can't. Donut gives you the scoop on everything you need to know about Toyota's famous offroader if you plan on putting one in your garage. Meat Expert Reviews Deli Meats 
To say Elias Cairo of Olympia Provisions is a meat expert is an understatement. From mold blooms to marbling, this man knows his cold cuts. Starting with visual analysis, smell, and finally the taste test, Cairo breaks down salami, ham, bologna, mortadella, hot dogs, sausages, and prosciutto to separate the cheap versions from the expensive cuts. Being Selfish Makes the World Better 
The better off everyone is, the better off we all are. It sounds simple on its face, but isn't quite as easy in practice. Kurzgesagt looks at the incentives for innovation and how, in a global economy, getting everyone a good standard of living helps us all. Meater Smart Meat Thermometer 
Delivering the best in backyard BBQ or indoor cook experience, MEATER boasts unique, patented technology that measures both internal meat and ambient temperatures in the oven or grill for a superior result, every time. MEATER's companion app sends estimated cook times and alerts to your smartphone over Bluetooth or WiFi, giving you the freedom to step out of the kitchen and enjoy the party or sit back and relax. To get started, just insert MEATER into the meat, wirelessly connect to the app, select the cook preference and wait until you get a notification from the app when it is time to remove from heat. 
Presented by MEATER. Frye Summit Hiking Boots 
Hiking boots were once only worn by avid outdoorsmen. Now, they're versatile enough to wear every day, whether you're tackling a trail or slippery pavement on the way to work. The Summit Hiking Boot is made using smooth full grain and vintage vegetable tanned leather that will age gracefully. Each pair also features molded rubber soles for solid footing on almost any surface. In addition, they're backed by Frye's commitment to quality, which dates back to 1863. 
Presented by Frye. Isle of Dogs Featurette 
In a series of featurettes, Wes Anderson is taking you behind the scenes of his latest film. Isle of Dogs will be his second stop-motion feature and like most of his projects includes a list of A-list voices. The first clip dives into the meticulous animation process that went into turning hundreds of inanimate objects into living, breathing characters, while another introduces the cast which features Bryan Cranston, Edward Norton, Bill Murray, Jeff Goldblum, and Bob Balaban. The film comes to theaters March 23, 2018. Basketball Robot 
Dubbed Cue, Toyota has finally created an athlete that will never let you down. Although it's a robot, it can shoot free throws with 100 percent accuracy. Even when pitted up against players from Japan's Alvark Tokyo it just can't miss. NBA players don't need to worry just yet. With only a perfect shot from the stripe in its repertoire, Cue won't be getting drafted anytime soon. Get on the Black List. 
Be the first to know about the newest gear, automobiles, and apparel for men. YOU’RE NOW ON THE LIST. “If James Bond were to make an app for the stuff he wanted to buy, this would be the app.” 
— Doug Stephens, Retail Futurist 