コミュニティハブ Total Extreme Wrestling 2010 Step into the world of wrestling in World Total Extreme Wrestling 2010. In this simulation title, you play the role of a wrestling promoter, and it is up to you to steer your company to the top of the industry! 全てのレビュー: ほぼ好評 (66) - このゲームのユーザーレビュー 66 件中 77% が好評です リリース日: 
このアイテムをウィッシュリストへの追加、フォロー、興味なしとチェックするには、 サインイン してください。 このゲームに興味がありますか? Total Extreme Wrestling 2010 を購入する スペシャルプロモーション! 3月26日 に終了 このゲームが含まれるパッケージ Paths to Glory Sports Simulation Bundle を購入する 7 アイテムを同梱： Bowl Bound College Football, Draft Day Sports College Basketball 3, Draft Day Sports Pro Basketball 4, Total Extreme Wrestling 2010, Total Pro Golf 3, World of Mixed Martial Arts 3, Wrestling Spirit 3 スペシャルプロモーション! 3月26日 に終了 レビュー 
“If you have ever wanted to be Vince McMahon or Eric Bischoff, this game is for you. Total Extreme Wrestling 2010 does one thing better than any pro-wrestling simulation that you have ever played: It gives you the feeling of running a wrestling promotion from top to bottom… the best pro-wrestling simulator on the planet.”9.1 – 411 Mania このゲームについて Step into the world of wrestling in World Total Extreme Wrestling 2010. In this simulation title, you play the role of a wrestling promoter, and it is up to you to steer your company to the top of the industry! You are in control of everything – deal with superstar egos, negotiate through wars and alliances with other wrestling promotions, and deal with the demands of TV networks. Do you have what it takes to lead your wrestling promotion to the top of the industry? Features: The most accurate wrestling simulator ever made, including wrestlers with styles that can change and over time due to injury, age, or skill level changes. The in-depth editor tools allow players to create their own databases, including a Quick Wrestler Creator. The "Create a Product" mode allows you to fine tune a promotion's style to your exact specifications, from specifying how long matches are expected to last to how much appeal the promotion has to mainstream audiences. User Characters allow you to enter the game world, and take part in shows, whether you want to be a wrestler, an announcer, or simply stay backstage away from the cameras. Grant specific strengths to your created characters. The new title lineage feature allows you to pre-set histories for any championship in the game, allowing wrestler's old title reigns to be recognized. The Game World Balancer automatically makes sure that there is a good distribution around the world of key staff like announcers and referees. Advance Booking mode allows you to pre-advertise matches of any type for your upcoming shows. All title belts have a prestige value, meaning you can try to raise certain championships in the eyes of the fans. In-depth merchandise settings. Promotions can now have up to three different brands within the company. Fatigue affects wrestlers, meaning careful wrestler management is a key skill. Drag and Drop Booking. User Preferences allow you to maximize your ability to customize the gameplay experience. Narratives allow for an element of storytelling in the game world. The user can pre-set certain events to happen on specific days, along with the optional ability to create a story explaining the event that will appear on the in-game web site. Much, much more! 