0 

There might have been some time when you suspected your husband of cheating but couldn’t confront him as you were not sure whether you were right or were simply suspicious. This is a common scenario but the question is how can you be certain that he is indeed seeing someone behind your back and catch him red-handed? Enlisted here are some signs of a cheating husband. Read them, cross check with your husband’s activities and get your answer. 
1. New found interests 
Has he suddenly developed a love for impressionist paintings or has started visiting the museum which he hated from his guts before? This could indeed be a sign that something might be going on which he is hiding from you. 
2. Too much or too less attention 
While paying less attention to you suddenly may seem to be sufficient explanation that there is someone else in his life, it could also be that he is indeed too busy with his work or he is not well. So you have to make sure what the reason is before pronouncing him guilty. At the opposite end of the spectrum is the possibility that he starts showering too much attention on you all of a sudden. This could also be an indication that he is feeling guilty inside. 
3. Too much importance to looks 
Has he started frequenting the salon or is hitting the gym in all earnestness? Keep your eyes open to this new found importance to his looks as it could imply that there is someone else he is trying to win over. 
4. Out till late at night 
If he is indeed cheating on you, there is every possibility that he will make excuses of too much pressure at the workplace and stay out till late at night. If this goes on for a sufficiently long time when his coworkers seem to be doing just fine, it should be sufficient proof for you to suspect him of seeing some other chick behind your back. 
5. Calls at odd hours 
If he has started getting calls at odd hours and sometimes even late at night, don’t just blow it away as something insignificant as it may not be so. To be certain, just notice if he finds some excuse to take the call away from you or gets alarmed every time you pick up his cell phone. 
6. Excuses for getting rid of you 
He may enter into some silly argument with you and leave the house or may suddenly be too anxious for your parents so much so that he packs you off to see them every other weekend so that he may have the house all to himself. Now, why he tries so hard to get you off his back hardly needs any explanation, does it? 
7. Incessant fights 
You may have been the happiest couple in the vicinity but lately there seems to be no end to the endless petty arguments. If this is true, then it is sufficient cause for alarm and instead of sitting idle, go to the depth of the matter and see if the cause of the quarrels is a third person, the other woman in his life. 
8. No action between the sheets 
If your husband has another woman in his life and if they are intimate as well, he will no longer be interested in having sex with you. If you are too eager on making love, he may just give an excuse of being tired or not being in the mood. Identify these as warning signs of his debauchery. 
9. Too many meetings and conferences 
Has he suddenly started attending conferences outside the city or has to be away from you every other week for some urgent official business? If this is the case, then investigate further as to find the exact cause of his sudden sojourns away from home. 
10. Too much time online 
The person who was never too tech savvy may suddenly seem to be inseparable from his laptop. If he seems to spend most of his time online, visiting dating sites and chatting, there is definitely something brewing which may be a sign of a cheating husband. Name (required) 