コミュニティハブ PhotoZoom Classic 6 Take photos from ordinary to extraordinary with PhotoZoom Classic 6. With patented, award-winning S-Spline XL technologies, resizing photos with clarity and sharpness is easy and fast. You can even enlarge and improve photos from the internet. 全てのレビュー: 
このアイテムをウィッシュリストへの追加、フォロー、興味なしとチェックするには、 サインイン してください。 このソフトウェアに興味がありますか? このソフトウェアについて Take photos from ordinary to outstanding with BenVista PhotoZoom Classic 6. With patented, award-winning S-Spline XL technologies, resizing photos with clarity and sharpness is easy and fast. You can even enlarge and improve photos from the internet. A set of highly effective tools allows you to crop photos, enlarge images up to 300,000 x 300,000 pixels and fine-tune with perfection. PhotoZoom Classic 6 is compatible with Windows 10 and can run as a stand-alone application. The possibilities are endless... Discover how much fun you can have with your photos! Superior Quality! Easily enlarge photos without losing quality or details (up to 300,000 x 300,000 pixels) Image Enhancement! Reduces (JPEG) compression artifacts and noise, even from low quality originals Easy to Use! Advanced fine-tuning tools, create your own presets and resize profiles Split screen previewing! Compare different resize methods at a glance Powerful crop tool for spectacular close-ups Supports raw images Uses S-Spline XL technology for crisp, clear images Works as stand-alone application, Photoshop not required Compatible Microsoft Windows 10 and Mac OS X 10.11 (El Capitan) (64-bit & 32-bit) Multi-language support Higher Quality Enlargements Turn your home photos into spectacular show-worthy shots! The cutting-edge S-Spline XL technique creates true-to-nature image enlargements with the sharpness, crispness and clarity. State of the art features outperform Photoshop's Bicubic interpolation attributes. Improve Internet Photos Easily fix photos from the Internet. A special setting removes undesirable JPEG compression artifacts and noise. Preset And Preview To Perfection Fine tune a variety of photos and graphics with ease by creating and saving your own presets, using a simple set of highly-effective tools. Get a preview of the final result with a large preview window then determine the optimum settings. The results come up instantly for every image. For a live comparison, split the preview window and see the difference between resized files. Crop Photos Beautifully Improved crop features allow you to select and resize specific portions of your images. Just the thing for perfecting close-ups! Compatibility PhotoZoom Classic 6 can be used as a stand-alone application and supports the latest versions of Windows and Mac OS X (64-bit and 32-bit). システム要件 