by Russell Coombes | Mar 19, 2018 | News | 0 comments 
One of the world’s leading light specialists, Feilo Sylvania, has repositioned its brand and streamlined its product and services portfolio to make it easier for customers to make smarter lighting choices. 
With a heritage that stretches back decades, Sylvania, the group’s biggest and most globally recognised brand, will become the lead brand presence in both the commercial and consumer sectors. Start, Concord and YourHome will become its core product ranges – each aligned to specific application areas and customer needs. 
While some region-specific brands will be folded into the new brand portfolio, the same overall range of high-quality products will be retained. The Lumiance brand, for example, which has some degree of overlap with both Start and Concord will be phased out of the market in some countries over a period of time, to simplify the specification process for end users, distributors, contractors and installers. The same level of local sales and technical support will be available to customers in all markets. 
As part of this customer-centric model, Sylvania has also overhauled its website with a view to making it quicker and easier to find products, as well as the supporting technical information. The improved filtering facility enables users to refine search results by both brand and application. 
By repositioning the master brand and consolidating the number of product range brands, Sylvania says it will reduce complexity and enable faster, more accurate specification. The Start range will be ideally suited to commercial, industrial and domestic premises where value-driven and simple LED solutions are preferred. Higher specification, design and architectural lighting needs will be catered for by the Concord range, which has a strong manufacturing base in the UK. 
YourHome will become Sylvania’s domestic market product range, which will give consumers access to high-quality, affordable lamps and luminaires. With this range, buyers can easily create warm, ambient light for their homes. Both the Start and YourHome ranges will be refreshed regularly to accommodate the changing moods and needs of customers. 
To bring greater customer-focus to the business, Sylvania is also investing heavily in its solutions-based businesses. Sylsmart will continue to bring forward innovative, market-ready solutions within the smart and intelligent lighting categories. Some of these concepts and prototypes have been previewed at this year’s Light + Building show in Frankfurt, Germany. Coupled with this, Sylvania’s DreamWorx offering will continue to work with individual customers to develop custom products to almost any scope or scale they desire. 
Finally, in a move to transform the way in which lighting is procured, Sylvania will accelerate the roll out of its Logic funding service to customers with lighting projects from €10,000 to more than €500,000. For cash flow sensitive businesses, and others looking to make aggressive cost savings, the Logic leasing model can release working capital and provide a much-needed boost to firms’ P&L. 
Christian Schraft, CEO at Sylvania, says: “We’re a business built on flexibility, integrity and ingenuity. We put customers first and shape our offer to fit the way they want to live and work. That ethos has led to a shift in business structure and the way we face the market today. 
“It’s about making it easier for customers to find what they want from the smart and dynamic to the stylish and functional. The Sylvania master brand, together with clearly defined product ranges and solution areas, is the best interface to deliver on that promise. It’s about letting customers have light, their way.” 
For more information, visit: www.sylvania-lighting.com More News