By S Puvaneswary / Posted on 20 March, 2018 9:53 The desert safari experience is a thrilling and welcome break for incentive groups or as a pre- or post-tour event, allowing delegates to escape the city with its skyscrapers and modern architecture – and the weight of work 
Concept Leaving behind the hustle and bustle of the city, our group of 70 people, led by trained safari guides, was taken deep into the Dubai Desert Conservation Reserve on 4×4 vehicles. 
We travelled convoy style in 14 vehicles with our driver making sure that we were all wearing safety belts before the journey started. He also pointed out where the barf bags are, and I quickly understood why once we hit the dunes. Rolling over the sand dunes 
As we drove up and down the dunes, we first timers were clinging on to the rails for dear life. It was similar to being in a rollercoaster hurtling left and ride at every turn. Thrilling as it was, we felt safe in the hands of our experienced driver. 
While whizzing through the reserve, I was lucky to spot a gazelle, Oryx and a sand fox. 
MICE application Arabian Adventures, the local DMC that arranged for our safari experience, can customise programmes according to the organisers’ wishes and budget. 
Our group, for example, stopped after a 25 minute drive so that everyone could get down, stretch their legs and get a breather. Many used this opportunity to take selfies and wefies in the desert. 
We then continued on to the next stop, where carpets and cushions were laid out for us to kick back and take in the picturesque view of the sun setting in the west. Here, we were served drinks and snacks, and treated to a live demonstration of how a falcon hunts. 
This was followed by a third and final stop in the desert. It was set up as a traditional Bedouin-style camp where we enjoyed a feast of grilled meats, fresh salads and a wide selection of Middle Eastern dishes. A belly dancer also entertained guests. Participants could also choose to get their hands painted with henna, or enjoy a camel ride. 
Service The whole trip was well-organised, the service was excellent and the food was delicious. Our guides always placed safety and comfort of their guests as their top consideration and made sure we had a great time. 
Contact 