What we know about Austin serial bombings so far Published time: 20 Mar, 2018 01:53 Edited time: 20 Mar, 2018 07:12 Get short URL FBI agents walk towards a crime scene on Mission Oaks Boulevard following an explosion in Austin, Texas. March 19, 2018. © Sergio Flores / Reuters Four explosions have rocked Austin, Texas, in the past three weeks, killing two people and leaving four others critically injured. Here’s what we currently know about the spate of bombings that is spreading terror in the city. The victims 
The first attack that killed 39-year-old Anthony House happened on March 2. Two further bombings occurred on March 12. The first of these took place just before noon, after a package was left on the doorstep of a house. Seventeen-year-old Draylen Mason was killed and a woman in her 40s was seriously injured. Several hours later, a second explosion left an elderly woman, Esperanza Herrera, with life-threatening injuries. 
The latest explosion on Sunday seriously wounded two men, aged 22 and 23, who were walking by the roadside when they accidentally triggered the bomb. Read more Explosion injures 2 in Austin, Texas, where a serial bomber is still at large Police hunting for ‘serial bomber’ 
The Austin Police Department believes the series of bombings are all connected. “ We are clearly dealing with what we expect to be a serial bomber at this point, based on the similarities between what is now the fourth device,” interim police chief Brian Manley told reporters on Monday. 
However, the bombs have not been consistently similar. The first three bombings were in packages left on doorsteps, but the device that exploded on Dawn Song Drive in Travis County on Sunday was left by the roadside. 
It was also more sophisticated than the previous bombs. Police believe that it may have been triggered by a tripwire and showed “a different level of skill above what we were already concerned that this suspect or suspects may possess,” Manley said. Not classified as ‘terrorism’ or ‘hate’ yet 
Initially, many commentators suggested that the bombings could be racially motivated because the first three victims were all African-American or Latino. Additionally, the two men who have died were both from prominent African-American families in Austin and their families reportedly know each other. By the time Ted Kaczynski had sent the number of bombs that have now gone off in African-American homes in Austin, the national FBI-USPS UNIBOM task force had already been created. — matt blaze (@mattblaze) March 19, 2018 A 4th bomb just went off in Austin — this story is getting NO COVERAGE.March 2