Confident Clancy enjoying new weight as he aims for “a big one” By irishboxing | on March 20, 2018 | Headline News 
A happier, healthier, heavier Gearóid Clancy [9(2)-5(0)] has set his sights on claiming the Australian title before the year is out. 
The Galway light welter became a two-weight New South Wales champion with a wide points win over Sam Williams in Sydney on St Patrick’s Day. 
Looking better than ever before, the Oughterard man dominated with a simple-yet-effective strategy and took the win 80-72 on all three cards. 
The Aussie based fighter has been noted for being in wars and tight fights, but claims the move to light welterweight was the catalyst to a career-best win on Saturday. Widgets Magazine 
Clancy described how he felt more at ease than ever in the ring against Williams and as result was able to control the pace of the fight en-route to a one-sided win. 
“I felt good. I felt I could have went eight more rounds. I could have been a small bit more clinical, but I felt I was doing what I liked in there. I didn’t want to push for the stoppage too much because I didn’t want to look bad. I was happy with the fight,” he told T2T Boxing afterward. 
“I felt I could step it up and take a rest whenever I wanted and that’s the first time I have done that in a long time. I wouldn’t turn down a fight at lightweight, but as long as I am getting away with it at 63.5kg, I am enjoying it a lot more, so why not?” 
“I felt steady on the legs. In other fights I felt the legs just went, but tonight I felt I could have went eight more rounds. It’s nice to be able to enjoy a fight after putting in all that work.” 
Now having buckled a second domestic title around his waist and being more content at a new weight, Clancy has big plans for 2018. Those plans include an Australian title fight before the year is out. 
The Oughterard emigrant outlined how he is looking for “a busy year, that’s the plan, I am feeling better and the confidence is growing. Maybe two more fights and finish the year with a big one.” 
“But if I got offered a big one before then I wouldn’t refuse it!” Share this: