Upcoming World title challenger TJ Doheny sees flaws in champion By irishboxing | on March 19, 2018 | Headline News 
TJ Doheny [19(14)-0] believes he will stop Ryosuke Iwasa to become Ireland’s third reigning World champion this Summer. 
The Portlaoise native registered a second-round knockout victory over Michael Oliver in a keep-busy clash in Boston on St Patrick’s Day and can now set his sights solely on the IBF super bantamweight World champion. 
Despite the fact a date has yet to be set, Doheny has already done some Iwasa study and is adamant he will pass the test when the time comes. 
Indeed, the Portlaoise southpaw believes the Japanese fighter, who dethroned Yukinori Oguni to claim the title and retained it with victory over Ernesto Saulong earlier this month, is made for his style – and, as a result, is predicting a late stoppage win. Widgets Magazine 
“I still haven’t had a fight where I have been able to showcase my skills and I think this fight against Ryosuke Iwasa, you’ll see the best of TJ Doheny,” the mandatory challenger told RTÉ . 
His study has been extensive, and ‘The Power’ described how “I’ve sat down and analysed him. I’ve watched him almost every day on YouTube.” 
“He’s stylish, sharp and accurate with his shots. But he’s like that for the early rounds and then the holes start coming through and that’s when I’m going to capitalise on his flaws.” 
“So once I start putting some shots on him, the whole fight wll turn and I will get him down the stretch. He’s been down on the deck twice and both by southpaws, which is another confidence builder.” 
The fight will take place in the Summer and will be hosted in Japan. 
To this day, Wayne McCullough is still the only Irish or British fighter to claim a World title win in the Land of the Rising Sun. 
However, Doheny is fully confident that he can emulate The Pocket Rocket’s famous win over Yasuei Yakushiji. 
The Murphys Boxing man outlined how “I know I have the tools to beat him so once I go out and perform to the best of my ability, there is no way that I won’t be bringing that belt back to Ireland.” Share this: