19 March 2018, 13:44 In Chechnya, SC upholds extension of Oyub Titiev's arrest 
Today, the Supreme Court (SC) of Chechnya has upheld the decision of the Staropromyslovsky District Court of Grozny to prolong the arrest of Oyub Titiev, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was informed by Pyotr Zaikin, an advocate of Oyub Titiev. 
Oyub Titiev, the head of the Grozny office of the HRC "Memorial", is under arrest since January 11 on charges of possessing marijuana . He stated that the drug was planted on him by a law enforcer , but investigators refused to initiate a criminal case on his application . The Human Rights Centre (HRC) "Memorial" recognized Titiev to be a political prisoner . 
"The public prosecutor did not bring any arguments against our appeal. We drew the Court's attention to the fact that Russian presidential candidates [Ksenia] Sobchak and [Grigory] Yavlinsky lodged a motion in favour of Oyub Titiev, but investigators and the court failed to consider those motions, although they were to," said the advocate after the court hearing. 
Pyotr Zaikin has specified he will be able to talk about further actions of the defence when he gets acquainted with the motivating part of the court's decision and will find out whether there is an opportunity to file yet another appeal. 
According to the advocate, about 30 people were present at the courtroom. "The court hearing lasted just less than two hours. Journalists from Chechnya and Moscow attended the court hearing, as well as rights defenders from Grozny and from Moscow," Pyotr Zaikin explained. He has also added that during the today's court hearing, Oyub Titiev did not complain to him about his state of health and conditions of detention. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Gor Aleksanyan ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Human rights; Crime; Society; Chechnya; North-Caucasian Federal District All news Georgian authorities: citizen of our country was severely tortured in South Ossetia 
Experts in Georgia have found traces of "cruel torture" on the body of Archil Tatunashvili, who died after being detained in South Ossetia, Sozar Subari, Minister for Displaced Persons' Matters, has stated. Georgia should sue Russia at the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) in connection with Tatunashvili's death, the Georgian President Giorgi Margvelashvili has added. March 22, 2018 17:53 
Russian border guards have detained two Georgian citizens in the villages through which the demarcation line passes, reports the Georgian State Security Service. March 22, 2018 15:29 Armenian authorities refuse to condemn brutal dispersal of protest after election 
As a result of the clashes, 10 people were killed and more than 250 others were injured. Out of 73 participants in the Armenian Parliament's meeting, only 10 voted in favour of the draft statement condemning the killing of demonstrators in Yerevan in 2008. The authorities will not benefit from any investigation into those events. This opinion was voiced by experts interviewed by the "Caucasian Knot". March 22, 2018 14:13 
In Grozny, a policeman was wounded after he had tried to verify an ID of a local resident, the Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation (ICRF) reports. March 22, 2018 09:26 Law enforcers disclose names of men killed in special operation in Chechnya 
In the course of a special operation, Aslambek Aleroev, Khavazh-Bagauddin Kottoev and Akhmed Medov, natives of the Malgobek District of Ingushetia, as well as Dagestani native Nazim Taibov were killed in the Achkhoi-Martan District of Chechnya. This was reported by a source from the law enforcement bodies. TOPICS OF THE DAY