Visit our new marketplace: Trademed.com - the place to buy surgical device and equipment. Mechanical Heart Valve Protects Neonates Hearts By HospiMedica International staff writers Posted on 19 Mar 2018 Image: A small mechanical heart valve is designed to save childrens lives (Photo courtesy of Abbott). A novel pediatric mechanical heart valve provides a life-saving option for children born with critical heart defects that need surgery during their first year of life. The Abbott (Abbott Park, IL, USA) Masters HP 15mm rotatable mechanical heart valve is designed for implantation in the mitral or aortic position. The bi-leaflet heart valve has pyrolytic carbon leaflets and orifice rings, an 85° leaflet opening angle to improve flow and reduce turbulence, and a controlled torque rotation mechanism for intraoperative adjustment. A sewing cuff contains additional suture markers for more accurate placement. The Masters HP mimics the valves of a healthy heart, opening and closing with each heartbeat and permitting proper blood flow. Currently the world's smallest mechanical heart valve, it will allow doctors to treat babies and toddlers in need of a mitral or aortic valve replacement. Until today, surgeons could only use larger-sized valves to replace failing pediatric heart valves, which were often not suitable given the smaller size of children's hearts. The Masters HP 15mm is part of the Abbot Masters Series line, which includes seven valves with diameter sizes ranging from 15 to 27mm demonstrating low-complication rates as both aortic and mitral valve replacements. “There's an urgent need for the smallest babies and children who need a suitable replacement valve in order to survive,” said Michael Dale, vice president of Abbott's structural heart business. “Abbott's new mechanical pediatric heart valve is a life-changing technology for the smallest pediatric patients, giving them a better chance at a long, healthy life with a fully functioning heart.” “In my practice, I want to be able to provide a treatment option that works for a critically ill child when a larger-sized valve may not be suitable,” said professor of surgery Kirk Kanter, MD, director of the Heart Transplant Program at Emory University School of Medicine (Atlanta, GA, USA). “The approval of this smaller pediatric mechanical heart valve provides surgeons with a much-needed option for treating these vulnerable, high-risk children.” Latest Surgical Techniques News