Crimes of the Turkish Occupation Army Against the Civilians in Afrin 20/03/2018 
February 18, 2018 
The Turkish army and its allied terrorist groups commit war crimes against the civilians 
The war atrocities committed by the Turkish army and the terrorist factions on daily basis against the civilians, constitute a clear violation of the international norms and war laws. These illegal acts must be deterred by the international community which has turned a blind eye on dozens of crimes against women, children and the elderly. These criminal acts are a gross violation for Geneva Convention of 12-Aug-1949 which require the perpetrators to obey to the International Criminal Courts, as they represent war crimes according to Rome Statute on crimes. Among these crimes committed by invaders in their war against Afrin city, for example: 
1- Shelling villages and areas followed to Afrin and destroying houses which have nothing to do with military targets. 
2- deliberately directing attacks and airstrikes against the populations in Afrin. 
Example: The Massacre of the Chicken Farm in Jelbereh village, where the Turkish invasion air forces committed a horrific massacre against the civilians on 21-Feb-2018 in Jelbereh village of Afrin enclave. In this massacre a whole family of 8 members were killed. The family members were working in the chicken farm. 
(chicken farm massacre by the Turkish invasion army in Jilbreh/Afrin 21-Jan-2018) 
It is worth noting that the workers in the chicken farm were Arab displaced people from Abu Makki village, Ma’aret Al-Noaman, Adlib. This family had been displaced from their village as a result of the armed conflict between the Syrian regime army and Al-Nusra Front. 
https://youtu.be/WkprEC71GUc 
“Our paramedics have rescued two children in the village of Jalbara, but we have documented about 11 people under the rubble after being bombed by the Turkish raids, which led to the complete destruction of the building,” said Dr. Nuri Qanbar of the Kurdish Red Crescent. ” Turkish army has done a real massacre by bombarding this village”. 
The following are the names of victims in this massacre: 
1-Rahaf Al-Hussein, 33-year-old. 
6-Musa’ab Al-Hussein, 6-year- old from the second spouse 
7- Ahmed al-Hussein, 17 years old “missing under the rubble” 
8-Sami Al-Hussein, 16-year-old “missing under the rubble”. 
3- Extensive destruction of archaeological property and civilian objects without being justified by military necessity and in a reckless manner. 
E.g. the destruction of the ancient Ain Dara temple in the southeast of the village of Ain Dara in Afrin region, and its sculptures and basalt walls were turned to rubble due to the Turkish shelling. This temple dates back more than 1300 years BC. 
(Ain Dara temple after the destruction) 
(Ain Dara Temple before the destruction) 
4-Intentional attacks against journalists, employees or vehicles used for humanitarian missions. 
E.g., the killing of the journalist Perivan Mustafa in Afrin – Raju – during her coverage for the Turkish offensive on Afrin. 
(YPJ journalist got martyred during Turkish attacks) 
5-Intentionally directing the attacks against buildings designated for religious and educational purposes, hospitals and places where sick and wounded are gathered. (one of the Turkish army shells landed on a masque in Afrin) 
6-Deliberate siege of civilians as a method of pressure on Syria Democratic forces by cutting off supply routes to Afrin to provide the civilians with drugs and food, as well as deliberate disconnect for communications, water and power supplies. 
Turkey’s Crimes against Humanity 
Genocide crime against the Kurds in Afrin: 
According to the first article of UN Convections on 12 January 1951, ” Genocide is a crime under international law, whether committed in time of peace or war, and the States Parties undertake to prevent and punish it. Crise systémique occidentale 2017-2019 – Le Dieu-dollar contre la Grande Tentation du PétroYuan 
The second article in the same conviction states: “ Genocide means any of the following acts committed with the intent of the total or partial destruction of a national, ethnic, racial or religious group as such in whole or in part “ . 
Among the acts set out in the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide and the Rome Statute, for example, are committed by the Turkish army and Jihadist faction in Afrin: 
1-Killing individuals or members of a sectarian, religious or ethnic group. 
2-Causing serious mental or physical harm or damage to the members of the group. 
The crime of genocide is achieved by any material or moral means that has a direct impact on the members of the group against whom it is committed. This is what we daily see from the systematic practices of the Turkish army and its terrorist groups against the Kurdish people in particular by committing massacres via artillery and missiles. 
(a picture of the massacre committed by the Turkish army in Gopleh village 28-Jan-2018) 
An example is the massacre in Gopleh village , Sherawa, Afrin on 28-Jan-2018, where the Turkish jets bombed a house for a Kurdish family, where 8 people killed and 7 wounded from the same family. This is the largest proof of the Turkish genocide crimes against the Kurdish people since dozens of years. 
Names of the wounded