Samsung is putting its heart into a new feature: Does it have enough pulse? March 20, 2018 9:00 am Samsung S9 Samsung’s flagship devices have been plagued by features that make no sense for years. This year, Samsung released the S9 which has a feature that’ll make health specialists and users, that worry about their health, want to buy one on the spot. 
Bitcoin makes headlines again: Forget Bitcoin price volatility: Who’s playing yoyo with crypto? Samsung Health Since the s5 we have had one reoccurring sensor, the blood rate sensor, which only measured your heart rate and blood oxygen levels. Samsung’s last keynote, when they announced the S9; focused on the new “heart pressure” sensor, but until 3 days ago, it was useless. 
Crown Prince isn’t on vacation: Saudi Crown Prince ‘s US business agenda revealed: Bypass Trump; Cue the S9 In order for a doctor to measure your blood pressure, he should be carrying a Sphygmomanometer; Bulky devices that are a hassle in doctors’ opinions. 3 days ago, University of California San Francisco (UCSF), in collaboration with Samsung; released an app for the heart pressure sensor called “My BP Lab App”. 
Top CEO Conference & Awards 2018: What to expect – Part I Why is this so Important? “Having a high blood pressure puts you at risk of cardiovascular diseases and strokes,” says the Center for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and added that “it is the leading cause of death worldwide.” Doctors will see this feature as very useful since a phone is always in our pockets. 
Health-conscious people can check their heart pressure on the go without having the need to go to a doctor. The app is a great way to showcase a new chapter in Samsung’s intentions to burst into the healthcare market, but it has some problems. 
Top CEO Conference & Awards 2018: What to expect – Part II Limitations For the time being, you can only measure your heart pressure; measuring anyone else’s won’t work. Not only this. A study from the US National Library of Medicine showed that the sensor doesn’t measure your exact heart pressure, but certain changes in your blood pressure. oops. Previous Story