by Team CF · 0 Comments 
How much would it cost to be living on a boat in the Netherlands? I had no real clue, but expect it to be rather pricy. After we looked at our housing history last week, I found myself on Funda once again (a “house for sale” site). Here a found a “ creative living option ” that looked rather promising (and quite pretty). So I got out the good old calculator, opened up my internet browser and started having fun. Please tell me I’m not the only one doing this 😉 Living On A Boat 
What caught my eye? Well this beauty! Almost 22 meters of old Dutch design (built 1902). Pretty cool, eh? 
The price for the “floating house” is now €75.000. That is still a lot of money, and you can certainly buy a house or apartment for this. But I doubt the views and character will match. For those interested, you can download the sales brochure here (just in case the ad disappears from Funda in the future ): 
Living on a boat – bolhaven 10 Zeewolde Purchase: 
The vessel is for sale for a price of €75.000. Based on the notes in the brochure, there are no transfer taxes applicable (for a house this would be 2% around here). No sales taxes either. You would want to inspect the vessel, that would probably set you back €300-400 (unless you want to take it out of the water). Then there are the notary costs at about €600-800. In short, you should bring a total of about €76.000. 
You cannot finance this vessel with a regular mortgage, apparently (see brochure). The ING bank stopped these special “floating house” mortgages in 2016. Only the Rabobank still does them apparently, but not for this boat it seems. So you would have to get creative! It will be either cash, or crowd fund, take out a personal loan, family loan, or ….(and any combination of the mentioned). Expenses 
What expenses are to be expected for living on a boat. Most will be very “similar” to those for a house, but some will be typical for a boat obviously. From the advertisement/brochure and from browsing around the web, I got to the following monthly expenses: Slip fees (“havengeld”): €275 Heating & Electrics: €225 Financing (€75.000 @ 4%): €250 insurance: €75 (could not get a quote quickly, so I assume it’s much more expensive then a house) Internet/phone connection: €25 Maintenance: €500 (costs and reservations) 
The total monthly expenses will likely hoover around €1.350 (or about €16.000 per year). That is all-in! Not too bad actually, especially not considering your house is mobile, spacious and you are living on the water. 
Some notes: No garbage or property tax apply according to the brochure (likely partially included in slip fees) Water use is assumed covered by the slip fees The maintenance is a rough estimate as I don’t know for sure how well the boat is maintained. Nor do I know all the costs associated with getting it out of the water for maintenance. I do know it won’t be cheap! You will need to paint something on this boat about every year. You will also need to pull it our of the water to clean, paint and repair the underside every 5-10 years. Also the diesel systems need to run and be maintained regularly. Not sure how the gas stove works? Did not see costs for gas use anywhere. Practical? 
Living on a boat is often not very practical, but this is a fairly large boat and the layout seems rather good. 
It might not be ideal for tall people, but I can see this being a very nice place to live. The location where the boat is currently moored is close to the town of Zeewolde in the province of Flevoland. So even groceries, medical care, etc. should not be a problem. Heck, you might have these guys as your “neighbors” (blog in Dutch). Investment? 
Financially savvy as we are, we also need to look at this in terms of it being an investment. Let’s assume that we just buy the boat in cash. Let’s assume the monthly expense noted above are the same (minus the interest). In short, operating expense are around €11.000 per year, excluding cleaning. 
Based on some browsing around for other vessel/house boats that are rented out, we found that €100-150 per night is nothing out of the ordinary. We will take €125 per night as average (sleeps 4 max). Let’s assume no one wants to say here during the three winter months. The fall and spring will have 60% vacancy and the summer only 20%. This is a yearly utilization of 40% (144 nights)as a base case. This should provide you with €18.000 gross income. 
Now let’s say we have cleaning expenses of €30/cycle. The assumption is 144 days of utilization, with an assumed average stay of 3 days = 48 stays. That is €1.440 in cleaning expenses. This leaves you a net operating income of €16.560 – €11.000 = €5.560/year. On €75.000 that is a yield of 7.3% (before taxes). Not bad! We might just need to get ourselves a boat 🙂 

Have you ever lived or stayed on a boat? 
Please follow and like us: About Team CF 
Dutch couple (with kid) on a mission to become Financially Independent & Retire Early. View all posts by Team CF → Post navigation 