Al Bashir summit in Egypt hopes to thaw relations March 19 - 2018 CAIRO Sudan's President Omar Al Bashir meets Egypt’s Abdel Fattah Al Sisi in Cairo today 
Sudanese President Omar Al Bashir has stressed that Sudan and Egypt have a political will to cooperate and address problems which erupted between the two countries, saying “we will work for constructive cooperation for interest of people of the two countries”. 
President Al Bashir was speaking during a joint press conference with his Egyptian counterpart, Abdul Fattah Al Sisi at Al Ethadiya Palace today following their Summit, the official Sudan News Agency (SUNA) reports. He said that that relations of the two countries is the responsibility of leaderships of the two countries. 
President Al Bashir said there was “no option save cooperation and working together to achieve interest of the two people, indicating to eternity and historic as well as common destiny”. 
He said the bilateral and direct meeting meetings held by leaderships of the two countries were positive and that increased understanding which, in turn, leads to further cooperation between the two countries in all fields. 
He stated that talks he held with President Al Sisi tackled all concerns of the two countries and projects in fields of power, Nile transport, and railways to ease movements of people and commodities, which, he explained, the genuine desire of people of the two countries. 
Al Sisi re-election 
Reuters reports that Al Bashir welcomed his Egyptian counterpart’s bid for re-election during his first visit to Egypt since 2016 and pledged further cooperation after a year of rocky relations between the neighbouring countries. 
Ties between the African countries have appeared to fray in recent months, as Cairo grew restless over a Sudan-Turkey naval agreement and a dispute over a dam Ethiopia is building on the Nile river that runs through all three countries. 
Sudan last year banned imports of all Egyptian agricultural goods, a move analysts saw as largely political and tied to a litany of Sudanese grievances, chief among them disputed land in Egypt’s south. 
Sudan recalled its ambassador to Egypt in January without explanation, but allowed him to return earlier this month. 
On Monday both leaders agreed to strengthen ties and work together to bolster trade, military and energy cooperation, though the trade spat was not mentioned. 
“(We) discussed ways to achieve and promote our common interests, in light of our full respect for (each country’s) internal affairs and joint efforts to maintain the national security of both countries,” Egypt’s Abdel Fattah Al Sisi said at a news conference following the meeting. 
Al Sisi is standing for re-election next week in a vote he is almost certain to win. 
“We have timed our visit to reaffirm our support for stability in Egypt and for President Al Sisi,” Bashir said. 
(Sources: SUNA / Reuters / RD)