ndtv.com March 20, 2018 
We’ve heard it time and time again; Vitamin C is as close to magic for your skin as possible. According to Oregon State University, this is so because of its anti-oxidant properties, ascorbic acid content and main role in collagen synthesis. Simply put, these properties allow Vitamin C to protect one’s skin from sun damage, reduce darkening and scarring as well as diminish signs of ageing. With so many advantages backing it, you can be certain everyone wants to add this wonderful vitamin for their skin. But how? We’ve got the answer to that. These five ways make the best use of Vitamin C to add it to your routine efficiently. 
1. Apply It 
The simplest way to add Vitamin C to one’s skin care routine is by picking up products enriched with it. There are plenty of face washes, toner and moisturisers enriched with it, like The Body Shop’s entire Vitamin C range that even includes a liquid peel. It’s the simplest, fuss-free choice to give your skin a vita-rich boost. 
2. Drink It 
Even if you aren’t particularly thirsty when you wake up in the morning, make it a point to add Vitamin C to the first glass of fluid you have. To a tall mug of warm water, stir in the juice of half a lemon and drink it before you consume anything else. According to Tasty Yummies, this simple drink balances the immune system, promotes healing and encourages skin health. 
3. Pack It 
If you’re willing to get your hands dirty, you’ll be glad to know that it’s easy to whip up a Vitamin C filled face pack from the comfort of your home. To do so, combine the pulp of four strawberries with two tablespoons of oatmeal and two tablespoons of milk. Mix well and apply it to your face and neck. After 40 minutes, wash with warm water. Strawberries are jam-packed with Vitamin C and, when combined with oatmeal and milk, will leave your skin fresh and radiant. 
4. Eat It 
To get Vitamin C directly into your body so that more efficient results show up on your skin, add it into your diet. According to Health, foods like cauliflowers, pineapples, strawberries and broccoli are filled with Vitamin C, some of them even more than oranges. When added to your meals on a regular basis, they will benefit both, your skin and health to a great extent. 
5. Spray It 
To give your face a refreshing midday spritz and get in on that Vit-C action, make yourself a face mist. Simply combine one teaspoon of aloe vera gel with two tablespoons of lemon juice and two tablespoons of rose water in a spray bottle. Shake well before use and store it for a week in your refrigerator. Now get set for a burst of lemony freshness. ALSO READ