Hemisphere GNSS announces new multi-GNSS smart antennas 19 March 2018 Hemisphere GNSS announces the new single-frequency, multi-GNSS Vector V123 and V133 all-in-one smart antennas with integrated Atlas L-band designed for professional and commercial marine applications. Powered by Hemisphere's Crescent Vector technology, the new V123 and V133 are multi-GNSS compass systems using GPS, GLONASS, BeiDou, Galileo, and QZSS for simultaneous satellite tracking to offer heading, position, heave, pitch, and roll. With support for NMEA 0183 and NMEA 2000, and continuing to offer ease of installation, these Vector models continue to offer the exceptional value and performance Hemisphere is known for. The V123 and V133 thrive in Radar/ARPA, AIS, ECDIS, side-scan survey, multi- and single-beam surveys, dredging, and general navigation applications. The V123 and V133 rugged smart antennas combine Hemisphere's recently announced Crescent Vector H220 OEM board and two superior multipath- and noise-rejecting antennas (spaced 50 cm apart) in a single enclosure. The smart antennas require only a single power/data cable connection for fast and reliable installations, even in the presence of strong radio transmissions. These Vector models deliver class-leading 0.3 degree heading accuracy and sub-meter DGPS accuracy as well as optional 0.5 m Atlas L-band accuracy. "The Vector V123 and V133 GNSS compasses represent significant enhancements to our industry leading models they replace, providing even greater performance, improved robustness, and excellent value," says Miles Ware, Director of Marketing at Hemisphere GNSS. "Users now have an even higher performing all-in-one Vector for their commercial and professional needs with the addition of BeiDou, Galileo, and QZSS as well as Atlas L-band corrections." The V133 includes all the features of the V123 and adds the capability of receiving differentially corrected data from land-based beacon stations. Ease of installation and no maintenance or servicing enhances the simplicity of these new Vector models. Atlas is a flexible, scalable, and industry-leading GNSS-based global L-band correction service providing robust performance and correction data for GPS, GLONASS, and BeiDou, at market leading prices. Atlas delivers correction signals via L-band satellites to provide accuracies ranging from sub-meter to sub-decimeter levels, and leverages approximately 200 reference stations worldwide, providing coverage to virtually the entire globe.