Irish fighters at the table – A look back at past face-offs By Joe O'Neill | on March 18, 2018 | Features Headline News Videos 
Tomorrow evening [Monday March 19th at 6:00pm] the inaugural Irish-Boxing.com Round Zero will be released via our Facebook page. 
Ahead of the BUI Celtic super featherweight title rematch between Stephen McAfee and Colin O’Donovan , Irish-Boxing.com and Sideline Films got the two fighters for what was a heated debate. 
Two fighters who genuinely seem to dislike each other, it was a fiery start to what we hope will become a fixture on the Irish scene. 
The pair will meet in the ring once again on Saturday night [March 24th] at Good Counsel GAA club in Drimnagh, Dublin. Widgets Magazine 
You can watch a teaser for Round Zero below: 
Call it ‘The Gloves Are Off’, ‘Face-Off’, or ‘Round Zero’, it is a well-used and entertaining format, and a number of Irish fighters have featured in such set-ups in the past. 
Carl Frampton v Scott Quigg One of the longest and most heated build-ups to a fight in recent memory, Frampton and Quigg had a memorable verbal spar – with alleged sparring stories being the topic of the day. 
Gary O’Sullivan v Chris Eubank Jr The Cork middleweight had called out Eubank for months and months, organising a huge social media campaign and eventually securing the bout on the Anthony Joshua v Dillian Whyte undercard. Having been essentially ignored beforehand, O’Sullivan then had to contend with a very aggressive Eubank in their pre-fight showdown. 
Andy Lee v Billy Joe Saunders The Limerick middleweight defended his WBO middleweight title in a twice-postponed clash, with Lee eventually being edged out in December 2015. Ahead of the fight, the pair went head-to-head in a two-part discussion chaired by Steve Bunce. 
The Middleweights A Sky Sports special featuring four fighters who never met, Irish boxers Matthew Macklin and Andy Lee joined England’s Darren Barker and Martin Murray for an extended chat which featured plenty of stirring from Johnny Nelson. Share this: 