By Mimi Hudoyo / Posted on 20 March, 2018 12:12 Having soft opened last November, the 347-room Yogyakarta Marriott Hotel is in its early days seeking volume in order to gain visibility in the market. 
The hotel, the first under the Marriott Hotels brand in Indonesia, currently features the biggest hotel ballroom in the city, club room and lounge, and is adjacent to Hartono Mall, the largest mall in Central Java. A guestroom in Yogyakarta Marriott 
Winkie Wong, senior director brand and marketing Asia Pacific, Marriott International, said: “Indonesia has immense potential as a growing source market and we see a lot of opportunity there for the Marriott Hotels brand.” 
As for the choice of Jogjakarta, Wong told TTG Asia : “In addition to having a great owning partner, Duta Merlin Dunia Properti, there’s a lot of potential in the destination for international leisure and business travellers. Jogjakarta is a hub of art, culture and education as well as a dynamic city that is growing in terms of business and economic development.” 
The city has direct air access with Singapore and Kuala Lumpur and is only a 50-minute flight from Jakarta. 
The opening of the hotel is also considered timely as the city is expected to have a new international airport by 2020. 
Alain Rigodin, general manager of Yogyakarta Marriott Hotel, believes the opening of the airport would be a game changer for the destination. The hotel will officially launch 12-18 months ahead, affording it the time needed to position itself in the market and be ready when the airport is up, he said. 
With the biggest, pillar-less ballroom in town measuring 1,870m2, seven meeting rooms and one boardroom, business events will be its primary focus, followed by corporate and leisure travellers, Rigodin said. 
During this introductory period, the hotel has benchmarked prices for the lead-in category between one million rupiah (US$77) and 1.5 million rupiah. 
“This is reasonable when you compare with other destinations like Jakarta, Bali or even Singapore. where you will see similar offerings for three to five times the price.” 
To attract corporate and community gatherings, the hotel is also putting in place various promotions such as nightly all-you-can-eat buffet with different themes, the first such hotel offer in the city. 
“We are (currently) looking for volume because want to showcase the hotel and our strategy is to get more people to talk about it – such as through social media,” Rigodin shared. TAGS 