Scot Joe Ham ready to “batter” Tyrone McCullagh in Celtic title fight By irishboxing | on March 18,   
Joe Ham [14(5)-0] claims he is now ready to ‘batter’ Tyrone McCullagh [9(5)-0] in a career-changing fight this Summer. 
Derry’s McCullagh has been calling for a fight with the Scot for some time and finally got his man when the British Boxing Board of Control ordered a Celtic title fight between the pair which also doubles as a British title eliminator. 
The ticket-selling Scottish super bantamweight has always been open to a clash with ‘White Chocolate’ and is hoping to take a massive step toward a 122lbs British title shot. Widgets Magazine 
The fight has to play out before the end of July and, with purse bids set for April 11th, it could be some time before we find out where or exactly when a fight between to hungry undefeated boxers will play out. McCullagh’s British title eliminator opponent feeling confident. 
Regardless, Ham is back in training and is preparing to make a statement against the Foyleside favourite. 
“This is massive for me,” he told the National. “It’s great that this fight is happening. I’m feeling good and I’m confident that I’ll batter him.” 
“A British title is one of the most prestigious titles out there and this is a step towards it.” 
“If I win this, I reckon I’d get a shot at a British title towards the end of the year. So it’s a case of winning this one and then moving onto a British title.” 
Ham’s last win is said to have come in impressive fashion, but it was another victory over journeyman opposition as he overcame a fighter well known to these shores Edwin Tellez. 
The Glasgow fighter admits victory was a must and essentially a given, but he did put himself under pressure to perform against the tough away fighter. 
“It was only a matter of time before I got this British eliminator fight so I used last weekend’s fight as more of a warm-up to be honest,” he said. 
“I expect to beat these people but it’s the manner in which you do it. I didn’t take many punches – that was the most important thing. The big thing is that I’ve kept winning. I’ve not had any cuts and I’ve not had any injuries so everything has gone exactly to plan so far. 
The Scottish champion feels he has an edge in the experience stakes versus McCullagh and noted how “I’ve only had 14 fights as a pro but I’ve done the 10 rounds before whereas he’s not – the most he’s ever done is five.” 
“That’s a psychological thing but it’s important.” Share this: