Written by Stuart Thomson 1 day ago 
Mongolia’s leading free-to-air TV channel Mongol TV has launched a new OTT TV streaming service using technology from Brightcove. 
The new service, Ori TV, provides live and on-demand content to viewers worldwide. The service uses Brightcover’s OTT Flow platform, powered by Accedo. 
Other technology partners for the service include Cleeng, which provides subscriber management technology. 
The Ori TV service streams Mongolian TV content including live events, sports, entertainment, festivals and local versions of US franchise shows such as The Voice Mongolia, Mongolia’s Got Talent and Shark Tank Mongolia . The service is available via subscription, on the web, iOS, and Android. 
Mongol TV delivers services to Mongolia and adjacent markets via the Apstar satellite, and also broadcasts in PAL from a terrestrial transmitter on the Chingeltei mountain overlooking the Mongolian capital Ulaanbaatar. 
“Our ambition with ORI TV was to delight our viewers with the best live and on-demand OTT video streaming experience and we knew that only a market leader in OTT TV solutions could power that kind of experience. Therefore, it was an easy decision to select Brightcove because of their OTT Flow solution, which simplified the complexities associated with OTT streaming and accelerated our time to market. Brightcove’s OTT Flow came equipped with all of the features we were looking for: ease of use and setup, optimised for any device, stunning user interface, affordable price point, and a strong Asia-based support team,” said Bat-Erdene Gankhuyag, CEO of Mongol TV. 
“We are thrilled to be partnering with Mongol TV as our first customer in Mongolia to launch an OTT service in the country. This is another example of a great use case for Brightcove as we expand our customer base across the Asia region,” said Ben Morrell, General Manager, Asia, Brightcove. 
“We are seeing a shift in which where broadcasters are starting to package live and on-demand content into their OTT services. Our out-of-the-box OTT Flow solution helped Mongol TV launch its service in record time and with little upfront cost. As a result, broadcasters like Mongol TV can focus on what they do best – bringing the best in TV programming to viewers worldwide.”