zoom Aoka Mizu FPSO 
Oilfield services provider TechnipFMC has delivered horizontal Xmas tree systems and an FPSO subsea control system for Hurricane Energy’s Lancaster early production system (EPS) in the UK. 
Hurricane said on Tuesday that the horizontal Xmas tree systems for the Lancaster EPS, including fishing friendly protective structures, were delivered by TechnipFMC from its facility in Dunfermline. 
Energy services company Proserv will now carry out integration and testing with its Intervention Workover Control Systems (IWOCS). 
Hurricane added that, once testing was complete, the Xmas tree systems would be prepared for loading onto the Paul B. Loyd Jr. rig, to be installed during the completion works planned for later this year. 
The FPSO subsea control system was also delivered by TechnipFMC from its facility in Kongsberg. It is now being shipped to Dubai, ready for installation on the Aoka Mizu FPSO. 
“Together with its subcontractors, including SBM Offshore Services Inc, TechnipFMC is continuing to work to ensure the safe and timely installation of the turret mooring system (TMS) and the subsea systems (flowlines, risers, umbilical, jumpers, and manifold), for the Lancaster EPS,” Hurricane said. 
The company added that those elements remained on schedule for installation during the second and third quarter 2018 weather window. 
Robert Trice , chief executive of Hurricane, said: “The company ordered the Xmas trees and control system in December 2016 and they were some of the key long lead items that drove the financing schedule in 2017. Their delivery represents a significant milestone in readiness for our 2018 well completion program. 
“With other operations continuing as planned, we remain on schedule for first oil in H1 2019.” 
It is also worth mentioning that Hurricane also awarded an engineering, procurement, construction, and installation contract for the Lancaster (EPS) to TechnipFMC back in September 2017 . 
The Lancaster license has combined 2P Reserves and 2C Resources of 523 million barrels. Also, the company has 205 million barrels of oil equivalent on its Whirlwind license. During the 2016-2017 drilling campaign, the company made two significant discoveries at Halifax and Lincoln prospects, indicating that the Greater Lancaster Area and the Greater Warwick Area have the potential to be two large accumulations. Share this article