Audemars Piguet Audemars piguet Royal Oak perpetual calendar watch 
Audemars Piguet Royal Oak Perpetual Calendar Unique Piece achieves USD 240.000,- at the charity auction to support One Drop Foundation. One Drops mission is access to safe water, sanitation and hygiene as a transformative force to improve the living conditions of some of the world’s most vulnerable communities. 
Audemars Piquet introduced its first Royal Oak at Baselwold in 1972. Love at first sight. From then on, watch lovers worldwide recognized the watch as one of the most special watches in the world. Up on today the Royal Oak still holds a grip on that status. The steel watch with an integrated bracelet was designed by Gérard Genta who was inspired by traditional diving helmets and therefore featured exposed screw heads as well as a unique case design. After the first Roayl Oak a couple of successful descendants followed., among the Royal Oak Perpetual Calendar. 
On Friday, March 2, a one-of-a-kind Royal Oak Perpetual Calendar was live auctioned during One Night for One Drop. The unique piece achieves USD 240.000,- 
Not a stainless steel, but a 18-carat rose gold watch was one of the highlights of the auction. This unique piece featured the most classic complication in all of watchmaking with a special oscillating weight engraved with a reproduction of the historical Audemars Piguet Manufacture. The most iconic aspect of the Royal Oak collection is its recognizable octagonal bezel shape attached with eight hexagonal screws. Making the piece a true one-of-a-kind was the reversed dial and counter tones. 
When the hammer finally came down, the price was USD 240.000,- making it the evening’s top performing lot. In total, the evening raised USD 1.156.060,-. One Drop is an international foundation created in 2007 by Cirque du Soleil’s founder Guy Laliberté. This year, One Drop is celebrating 10 years of bringing sustainable access to safe water to people around the world with projects in 11 countries that will reach over 1 million beneficiaries.