San Francisco, California, USA 
Ascendify today announced the release of Aspire , a talent management solution that uses predictive analytics and machine learning to help employees take control of their own career advancement, while giving their managers deep insights into their teams’ greatest strengths and areas of growth. Today’s launch includes a breakthrough AI-enabled career assistant that understands where employees are within their organizations, and where they’d like to go next. The Intelligent Career Assistant intuitively helps employees understand what skills they already have, what skills they need, and at what level they should be for their current or future role. It’s the first of several innovative, intelligent assistants from Ascendify to be announced in 2018, and is now available for implementation worldwide. “There’s a dizzying amount of buzz around predictive analytics and machine learning in talent management these days,” said Kyle Lagunas, Research Manager, IDC. “What Ascendify brings to this conversation is a practical solution that addresses pain points in employee growth and retention. The intelligence gained through the app can help organizations identify new ways to develop and engage employees.” Ascendify Aspire can be offered as a stand-alone app, or deployed as part of Ascendify’s full Intelligent People Management™ platform . Ascendify has been working with global brands including Cisco and GE to build next-generation talent solutions that help large companies engage talent and build vibrant cultures. Aspire is comprised of three core modules: CAPABILITY ASSESSMENTS More than just a skills inventory, Capability Assessments learns about an employee’s skills, passions and interests and dynamically makes personalized learning recommendations (books, classes, videos) as well as stretch projects that can help someone grow, develop and reach their full potential. TALENT MARKETPLACE Talent Marketplace presents employees with specific initiatives and internal teams that fit their talents and interests. People can initiate and lead projects, or simply join an existing one. It builds capabilities of employees with “on the job training” that also drives value for the company. CAREER DISCOVERY The Intelligent Career Assistant presents what positions will be in demand years into the future so that employees can self-direct themselves to fill predicted talent gaps. Whether it’s a lateral move or advancement to the next level, Ascendify helps shape an employee’s ideal career path. “In the future, we won’t be matching people to job openings, we will be defining work around the inspirations of our teams,“ said Matt Hendrickson, CEO of Ascendify. ”With Aspire and our new Intelligent Career Assistant, we are transforming how enterprises help people reach their full potential.” For more information, please visit Ascendify at www.ascendify.com , and to watch a video and request a demonstration of Aspire, please come to www.ascendify.com/talent-management-software/aspire Ascendify’s Intelligent People Management™ platform reinvents how companies attract, develop and inspire their talent. Built for global organizations, Ascendify integrates machine learning and predictive analytics into recruiting and talent development with one seamless platform. This means a smarter way to identify the right people, which skills they have, what training and education they require and what guidance and motivation will keep them motivated to succeed. Headquartered in San Francisco, Ascendify’s customers include GE, Cisco, Panasonic, Disney, Deloitte and Marriott. The company was founded in 2012 and is backed by Canaan, Cisco Investments and GE Ventures. # # #