  338 times! 
Kenyan retail chain Nakumatt lost Sh18 billion worth of stock in the year to December 2017, its managers say in a report that reveals the extent of fraudulent activity that brought the company to near collapse. 
Peter Kahi, the court-appointed administrator, has hired experts to conduct a “special audit” into the significant discrepancy in Nakumatt’s books of accounts, which the retailer booked as an adjustment in its accounts for the year to December 2017. 
Nakumatt’s former management has said the discrepancy was the result of massive “theft, pilferage, stock shrinkage and losses arising from stock obsolescence, a response Mr Kahi says is “unsatisfactory.” 
The administrator, who insists initiatives to improve controls at Nakumatt started too late, is hopeful that the fresh stock audit will help the business secure a partial “tax write-off” from the Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA) and afford it headroom to map out a recovery path. 
The Sh18 billion hole emerged in a comprehensive report Mr Kahi presented to the retailer’s creditors on Wednesday, outlining restructuring proposals he believes would keep the business afloat. 
“The explanations are clearly unsatisfactory and raise more questions than answers, if we’re to claim this expenditure for tax purposes,” the administrator’s report says. “KRA will need a very clear and transparent response as to the make-up and nature of these losses.” 
Mr Kahi says in his report that in the year to February 2017, Nakumatt made sales of Sh52.2 billion and a net loss of Sh3.2 billion, meaning that the missing stock amounted to a third of the year’s revenues. 
Extent of fraud 
Nakumatt’s unaccounted for stock is more than two times what Carrefour, the French retailer, reported in sales last year, demonstrating the severity of the loss Internal and external fraud — whose extent has never been revealed — has been a perennial challenge for Kenyan retailers. 
The retailers, through their umbrella body Retail Trade Association of Kenya (Retrack), have previously claimed they lose goods worth Sh3.5 billion annually to shoplifters. 
Nakumatt’s managing director, Atul Shah, in January acknowledged the existence of internal fraud even as he insisted that the main causes of the retailer’s woes were external. Nakumatt creditors rejected Mr Kahi’s report, arguing the explanation given was unconvincing. 
“Was this stock purchased in 2017 or are these amounts from previous years? If from previous years, then audited financials have been incorrect,” one creditor noted. 
“Based on these incorrect financials, a commercial paper was issued. This is fraudulent and suggests that controls were so weak that this (missing stock) could not picked up sooner.” 
The administrator’s report paints a grim picture of Nakumatt’s financial health, noting that its total liabilities stand at Sh35.8 billion against Sh5.2 billion assets. 
Top among the creditors are commercial banks such as DTB, which is owed Sh3.6 billion, KCB (Sh1.7 billion) and StanChart (Sh805.1 million). 
Nakumatt also owes Bank of Africa (Sh328.4 million), United Bank of Africa (Sh126.2 million) and GT Bank (Sh104.8 million). 
The retailer also owes Sh1.1 billion in private placement loans and Sh4.8 billion in commercial papers. Trade creditors, many of whom have sued the retailer over the high debts, are owed Sh18.6 billion. 
Mr Kahi, whose goal is to maintain the business as a going concern, has asked banks to accept a three-year moratorium on loan repayments, chargeable at interest rates lower than prevailing market rates. 
He also wants creditors, commercial paper holders, and private placement loan issuers to waive a quarter of the Sh25 billion they are claiming and convert the balance into equity. 
Proposes IPO 
The administrator has further proposed that Nakumatt hold an initial public offering (IPO) before March 2024, where creditors can trade their shares on a private platform. 
Shares held by unsecured lenders, mostly suppliers, would be listed on the Nairobi Securities Exchange (NSE), helping “release cash to the creditors who sell their equity or hold the same for potential upside in subsequent years.” 
Nakumatt posted a net loss of Sh23 billion in the 10 months to December 2017 from sales of Sh14.8 billion in Kenya. 
The administrator believes that if the restructuring is greenlighted by the creditors, the business will lift itself from the deep financial hole and return consecutive profits for the next 12 years. 
However, Nakumatt’s recovery plan now hangs in the balance after the creditors rejected the proposals and failed to vote on the proposals during an acrimonious meeting on Wednesday. 
“Of course in a crowd of more than 2,000 people, all can’t agree with your views. We agreed to adjourn the meeting and call another once I address some procedural issues raised by the creditors,” Mr Kahi said, downplaying the fallout. 
According to other updates, Tuskys Supermarkets is facing fresh sanctions from the Kenyan competition watchdog for signing a deal to finance its financially troubled rival, Nakumatt, without approval of the regulator. 
Nakumatt’s court-appointed administrator Peter Kahi, in a report to creditors, says he is implementing a management agreement already signed with Tusker Mattresses Limited even before he took over running of the ailing retailer. 
The deal is alleged to involve Tuskys providing Sh650 million to support Nakumatt’s operations while another sum of between Sh1.5 billion and Sh3 billion is to go towards restocking branches. 
Tuskys, as per details of the agreement, is charging a management fee of one percent of sales. 
Mr Kahi in his report says the two retailers do not require the approval of the Competition Authority of Kenya (CAK) to actualize, a claim that the watchdog, however, says could attract penalties for the two supermarkets. 
“We shall follow up on the contents of the report and if we find that the partnership is live without our consent, the parties shall be liable to the penalties stipulated in the law,” said the CAK director-general Wang’ombe Kariuki in an interview Friday. 
If deemed to have breached the law, the retailers could be fined 10 percent of the revenues earned during the life of the irregular arrangement. The directors of the two firms also face a jail term of five years, a fine of Sh10 million or both. 
Nakumatt and Tuskys late last year lodged an application with the CAK seeking to merge, in a curious show of support by industry rivals. 
The regulator declined the application noting that the shareholding of the two firms was not changing and therefore they should have instead applied for an exemption. 
Mr Kariuki said the retailers filed their submissions seeking the exemption, adding that the regulator is in the process of evaluating it. 
Mr Kahi, in his report, however, states that he met the CAK and explained the position that approval is not a prerequisite for the management deal to be affected. 
“They (Nakumatt and Tuskys) are jointly operating an escrow account with the administrator for paying for the supplies. This agreement is key to the success of any turnaround efforts,” said Mr Kahi. 
As of December 2015, Nakumatt had nearly 65 stores in the African Great Lakes countries of Kenya, Uganda, Rwanda, and Tanzania. It employed over 5,500 and had gross annual revenue in excess of US$450 million. 
At that time, it had plans to enter other African countries and to increase the number of stores in the countries where it already had a presence. In October 2017 the company ran out of funds and many stores are now closed. The few that are still open have no fresh food; – meat, fruit and vegetables, dairy or bakery products – and what is left of the dry grocery and non-food stock is not being replenished. 
On 23 August 2008, Nakumatt opened its first store outside Kenya in the Union Trade Center, in Kigali, Rwanda.   338 times! Share this: