Clariant introduces HYDEX ® E: Next-generation diesel dewaxing catalyst for superior cold flow improvement Update of successful HYDEX series diesel dewaxing catalysts for winter diesel HYDEX E offers even higher diesel yield and cost-efficiency with fewer by-products Additional hydro processing functionalities prepare producers for upcoming fuel regulations 
Munich, March 20, 2018 – Clariant, a world leader in specialty chemicals, today announced the launch of its latest diesel dewaxing catalyst, HYDEX E. The new catalyst is an extension of Clariant’s well-established HYDEX series, designed for selective hydrocracking of long chain normal paraffins to improve the cold flow properties of middle distillates. HYDEX E maintains its predecessors’ exceptional robustness and flexible application, yet considerably increases diesel yield while reducing by-product formation. Consequently, producers not only benefit from higher cost-efficiency, but also improved sustainability. 
Catalytic dewaxing is essential for regulating fuel fluidity characteristics of diesel fuel to ensure reliable applicability and performance. This is particularly true for cold weather conditions. Clariant’s HYDEX catalysts have been successfully used for this purpose at more than 30 refineries around the world for over 20 years. The robust dewaxing catalysts allow versatile cold flow adjustment from 0°F to 120°F. Besides their excellent activity, long service cycles, and high tolerance to contamination, the catalysts also owe their success to extremely convenient installation. They offer a simple drop-in solution as a dewaxing layer in existing hydro processing units and require no further equipment. 
Until now, the series included HYDEX G for dewaxing diesel and kerosene, HYDEX L for viscosity adjustment of heavy hydrocarbons, and special catalyst solutions tailored to customer needs. The range was expanded to create a new catalyst that allows operation under full sour service conditions. HYDEX E achieves this thanks to its robust zeolite content, which is combined with non-precious metal composition to ensure stable hydrogen transfer. On-site testing of HYDEX E in an ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD) hydro treater pilot plant resulted in approximately 4%-wt. more on-road diesel product compared to previous HYDEX generations. This significant reduction in by-products presents a major financial advantage for producers. 
Detailed standalone testing also demonstrated further benefits of the new catalyst’s non-precious metal groups. These included improved desulfurization, additional product swelling, and a favorable shift towards combustion-benign mono-aromatics. These features will prepare producers for upcoming fuel regulations, which will stipulate more stringent limits on particulate formation. Even facing the conversion of complicated opportunity crudes. 
Stefan Heuser, Senior Vice President & General Manager Business Unit Catalysts at Clariant, commented on the development of HYDEX E, “Improving on our popular and proven HYDEX series catalysts was an important achievement. Through intensive research and development, we have succeeded in creating a product that will bring our satisfied customers even greater economic and regulatory benefits. As the only company in the world that delivers solutions from crude production to fuel terminal, we believe it is Clariant’s duty to add value to our customers’ businesses through continuous innovation.” 
Note to the editors : Clariant will present updates during its next press conference at DTF 8 in Hangzhou/China, April 11th. 
HYDEX ® IS A TRADEMARK OF CLARIANT REGISTERED IN MANY COUNTRIES. Reader enquiries 