  Videos: Liebherr LTM-1400 assembly and dismantling a Morrow Tower Crane in San Francisco 
18 March 2018 
Assembling a 400T mobile hydraulic crane with a 184 ft. luffing jib, which required closing down a city block of Post Street in San Francisco, on a rainy day . 
This large mobile crane will be used to disassemble Tower Crane #2, which is shown in the second video: 
Unlike most videos on this channel, this one contains a mixture of narration and music. But if you don't want to hear me rambling on, feel free to turn down the volume and listen to your own music! 
I don't have any great knowledge of cranes, so my narration isn't anything deeply technical or anything like that. Sadly, I had a possible rooftop location at one end of the street that would have yielded good views, but unfortunately it fell through at the last minute. 
Then, I had another possible rooftop location at the other end of the street, but it too fell through. So, I had to do the best I could from the public area of a building beside the crane, as well as some shots from the street. From Week 145 (mostly April 6, 2017, a little bit on April 5). 
Music licensed from AudioMicro.com. This video is not endorsing or recommending, nor was it endorsed by, any business, product, or organization. The appearance of, or mention of, any person, business, product or organization in it is not necessarily an endorsement or recommendation of or by that person, business, product, or organization. This recording is of views and scenes visible to the public. 
W atch the video below: Assembling a large mobile crane that will be used to disassemble a tower crane Disassembly of a tower crane, as seen from below - We bid farewell to tower crane #2 
Watching the disassembly and removal of Tower Crane #2 over two days, with multiple cameras and variable-speed time-lapses and closeups. They closed one street and brought in two mobile cranes to do the disassembly. The first day was a very dark, overcast day, with lighting that wasn't very good for photography. 
I compensated for that as best I could. Some of the early shots are not the best, I got the camera settings a little better as time went on. The second day turned out to be a nice sunny day — too bad both days couldn't have been that way. Oh well. 
I spent quite a bit of time searching, but couldn't really find music that fit the video as well as I would have liked, was affordable, and covered 37 minutes. I ended up with a jazz soundtrack that fits okay in some spots, but not so much in other spots. Feel free to listen to your own music instead if you prefer, because there's no narration or other audio in the video, just the music. 
From Week 145 (April 7-8, 2017). Music licensed from AudioMicro.com. This video is not endorsing or recommending, nor was it endorsed by, any business, product, or organization. The appearance of, or mention of, any person, business, product or organization in it is not necessarily an endorsement or recommendation of or by that person, business, product, or organization. This recording is of views and scenes visible to the public. 
Watch the video below: