20 March 2018, 00:20 NKR claims shooting down an Azerbaijani drone 
An unmanned aircraft (drone) of the Armed Forces of Azerbaijan was shot down when carrying out a reconnaissance flight, the Ministry of Defence (MoD) of the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic (NKR) has stated. 
According to the MoD, the Azerbaijani drone was detected in the evening on March 19 in its flight in the northeast direction of the troops' contact line. 
"Servicemen of the NKR's Defence Army have liquidated an Azerbaijani unmanned aerial vehicle, launched for the reconnaissance purpose," the website of the NKR's MoD reports. 
As of 00:18 a.m. Moscow time on March 20, the Azerbaijani MoD had not commented on this information on its official website. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Alvard Grigoryan ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Incidents; Conflicts; South Caucasus; Azerbaijan; Nagorny Karabakh; Armenia All news 
Today, at a picket "For Fair Elections" held in Volgograd, protestors have claimed that the number of votes given for Pavel Grudinin, a Russian presidential candidate from the Communist Party of the Russian Federation (CPRF) is understated by falsifications. March 20, 2018 16:25 
Today, law enforcers have launched a search for members of the armed underground in the Khasavyurt and Kizilyurt Districts of Dagestan, the National Antiterrorist Committee (NAC) reports. March 20, 2018 15:46 In Georgia, six participants of a protest near "Rustavi-2" building detained 
During a protest action, members of the NGO "Georgian March" attacked a journalist of the "Rustavi-2" TV Channel, who voiced an awkward joke about Christ. This was reported on March 19 by Nika Gvaramiya, the general director of the "Rustavi-2" TV Channel. He has apologized for the journalist's joke and called on to punish the persons involved in the attack on the journalist. March 20, 2018 13:37 Supporters of Zhirair Sefilyan express their indignation about verdict to him 
Zhirair Sefilyan, the leader of the Armenian movement "100 years without regime", and six other defendants were found guilty and sentenced to 2-10.5 years of imprisonment. Advocates, relatives and supporters of the defendants treated the verdict as a demonstration of power by the authorities. March 20, 2018 12:31 
On March 19, a regular soldier was wounded on one of the defensive positions in the Tavush Region, and his condition is severe, but stable, the Armenian Ministry of Defence (MoD) reports today. TOPICS OF THE DAY