19 March 2018, 17:35 In Karachay-Cherkessia, ballot stuffing recorded on video 
In Karachay-Cherkessia, the voting at the Russian presidential election was accompanied by ballot stuffing, and appropriate video records were published on the "Violations Map" prepared by the movement "Golos" (Vote). The information on the violations was not confirmed, reported the chair of the Karachay-Cherkessia's CEC. 
On March 18, the voting took place at the presidential election in Russia . Observers reported numerous violations . 
In Karachay-Cherkessia, according to the preliminary results of the voting, the incumbent Russian President Vladimir Putin won with 87.69% of the votes, the " Caucasian Knot " correspondent was informed by a member of the Karachay-Cherkessia's CEC. 
Out of the complaints submitted for publication on the "Violations Map", the majority - 26 complaints - were filed for violation of the rights of observers, members of election commissions and agents of the media. 11 complaints were filed about violations during absentee voting (voting "at home"), as well as illegal voting and distortion of results. 
Some of the reports on ballot stuffing at polling stations of Karachay-Cherkessia, posted on March 18 on the "Violations Map", are accompanied by video records. For example, a video illustrating the information about a violation committed at Polling Station No. 11 in Cherkessk shows how a man in camouflage approaches a ballot box. A young woman intercepts a pack of ballots from his hands, loudly talks about a violation and asks to register it. 
Larisa Abazalieva, the chair of the Karachay-Cherkessia's CEC, has announced that no serious violations were registered in the republic, and that numerous complaints posted on the Internet were not confirmed. 
Full text of the article is available on the Russian page of 24/7 Internet agency ‘Caucasian Knot’. See earlier reports: Author: Leila Gochiyaeva ; Source: CK correspondent bbb6b13d All news; Politics; Society; North-Caucasian Federal District; Karachaevo-Cherkesia All news