Comments 
The majority of the hospitality technology that is getting developed and becoming available on the market is focused on several crucial things like simplifying processes, making everyday tasks easier and automated, integrating multiple products on a single platform as one single integrated platform, etc. 
Although a lot of people have their own opinions about hotel-related technology, the fact remains that new solutions can improve the business, improve management, increase productivity and revenues; and, well, this is what matters. 
One of the biggest reasons why people in the hospitality business aren't so open to new technology solutions, computers and robotics is because their business relies on "the human touch" to provide great service and make their customers happy. A lot of them fear that they will lose their human touch and not be able to create one-on-one interactions with their customers. 
The technologies we will cover in this article are designed to give guests a better experience. It is the direction in which hotel technology is heading. If you think about it, implementing it can only help hotels improve their service. Making hotel management easier 
Today a lot of hotel operators are adopting modern hotel PMS and newer technologies that streamline all of their operations, help them manage their finances more effectively and deliver their guests amazing hospitality. Managing a hotel is a non-stop commitment, especially where a manager needs to take care of multiple properties. 
With cloud-based hotel PMS managers can access important information and perform actions whenever needed. By accessing a hotel PMS, a manager can review performance, change rates, and monitor reservations, no matter where he or she is located. They can rest assured that their system security is top tier, and at same time, they get better technology at a lower price. 
There is no need for manual paperwork, organization or using multiple systems to get the job done. This means that managers are faster and ready to deliver their guests the needed results in a timelier manner. A single, cloud-based and integrated hotel PMS can allow operators to connect with all hotels and coordinate between them effectively, to give their respectable guest the experience they need. IoT smart rooms 
Many hotels are considering implementing IoT devices, as they are very cost-effective and can improve your guests' experience. The guests need to feel like the room knows them and like they know it as well, and with this kind of platform they are able to voice control everything in their room, use a device to control lighting and temperature, and connect these devices to their smartphones to do things. 
One of the biggest factors for improving the level of comfort is to digitalize the whole experience for the guests and allow them to do things like they are used to doing in their everyday life. Additionally, there are many virtual room services where customers can order what they need or address issues through their mobile devices. 
Not only does this provide a better experience to users, but the concierge is also quicker to cater to their needs. Some hotels have already started implementing interactive elements within their rooms, where guests can move or adjust things with their gestures. For example, Smart TVs have been around for a long while, and they do just that – you can make a gesture with your hand use it as a remote., 
There are many similar hotel technology solutions and although you cannot implement all of them, it's important to understand in which direction the industry is heading to improve the experience of their guests using technology. AI and machine learning 
Since these technologies started being applied in different solutions and became more readily available to the general public, many industries have implemented them. This is why machine learning and artificial intelligence is also a hot prospect in the hotel industry. 
A lot of organizations and brands are experimenting and planning on implementing AI in their hotels. There are already many chatbots that hotels use to help their current and potential customers. However, as AI is getting better and more complex, there is more potential for handling complicated tasks, and this means that hotels could be able to reduce their overhead operational costs. 
On the other hand, AI can be used to gather valuable data from guests. When using a management system that is integrated with all the devices in a hotel and with an AI, it can collect data, sort it and draw valuable conclusions. The more it learns about guests the easier it will be for the AI to figure out new actions that can make their experience better. 
These are the hotel technology trends that are expected to reign supreme in 2018. As with any other industry, technology can offer great innovations that can help brands increase their profits and make their organizations more efficient from within.