A person was injured after a package bound for Austin exploded at a Texas FedEx 1 uur FBI agents work at the scene of an explosion in Austin on Sunday, March 18, 2018. source Austin-American Statesman/Nick Wagner via Associated Press A package bound for Austin, Texas, exploded at a FedEx facility in a nearby city. One employee at the Schertz facility was injured. The incident comes after four explosions in Austin over the past two weeks, which killed two people and injured four others. It’s not clear yet whether the FedEx explosion was linked to the Austin bombings. One person has been injured after a package bound for Austin exploded at a FedEx facility in Schertz, Texas. The package, which contained nails and shrapnel, exploded shortly after midnight local time, Reuters reported, citing the San Antonio fire department. Schertz is located outside San Antonio, 65 miles south of Austin. The incident comes after four explosions in Austin over the past two weeks, which killed two people and injured four others. Three were parcel bombs dropped off at night in front of homes in the city’s east side, and the fourth was a tripwire device that detonated on the west on Sunday. Police suspect that a “serial bomber” is on the loose. It remains unclear whether Monday night’s explosion was related to those bombings. A map showing details of the four previous bombings in Austin, Texas. The latest explosion at the FedEx facility is not included. source Samantha Lee/Business Insider Preliminary evidence of the four previous bombs suggested similarities between the devices used, Austin’s police chief, Brian Manley, told reporters on Monday. Authorities are also investigating whether the perpetrator, or perpetrators, had a “specific ideology behind” the bombings. Two explosions took place at homes owned by African-Americans, while one took place at the home of a Hispanic woman. “We cannot rule out that hate crime is at the core of this; but we’re not saying that that’s the cause as well,” Manley said . Dit artikel is oorspronkelijk verschenen op z24.nl Deel dit artikel.