 Port of Quebec Strengthens Ties with Three Belgian Ports Port of Quebec Canada’s Port of Quebec has decided to strengthen commercial ties with three Belgian ports.
The port signed partnership agreements with the Port of Brussels, Port of Zeebrugge and North Sea Port on the occasion of the visit of State of TM the King and Queen of the Belgians in Canada on March 16, 2018.
As explained, the first agreement will allow the Port of Brussels and the Port of Quebec “to jointly apprehend issues common to both ports” , such as exchanges based on sustainable development and environmental efforts and initiatives, among others.
In addition, the Quebec Port Authority (QPA) and the Port of Zeebrugge will be able to work together in key commercial areas for containers, automobile terminals and many other commercial aspects. This partnership agreement will also provide opportunities to discuss and share port know-how and best practices, sustainable port management, city–port relationships, and any commercial data that may be of interest to both parties, according to the Port of Quebec.
“The purpose of this agreement is to exchange expertise and experiences, as well as staff and experts in different fields. Another objective is to develop goods flows between Zeebrugge and Québec in the car, container and food sectors,” Joachim Coens , Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Port of Zeebrugge, commented.
What is more, the new partnership between the Port of Quebec and North Sea Port will foster collaboration in commercial sectors including cereals, ore, and the forestry industry. North Sea Port is the result of a merger between a Belgian port and a Dutch port.
“The similarities between the Port of Québec and North Sea Port are conducive to forging a beneficial partnership, thanks in part to our strategic geographic positions and our shared commercial sectors,” Mario Girard , Port of Québec president and CEO.
The Quebec Port Authority is an autonomous federal agency established under the Canada Marine Act. In 2017, the Port of Quebec recorded a total of 27.5 million tonnes of goods handled.
Share this article