Comments 
T here was a time when most Australian drivers would encounter a particular kind of defaced road sign in their travels. Speeding along the National Highway near the Broome turn-off in Western Australia or dodging kangaroos on the back roads of western Queensland around St George, drivers could see a sign urging them to “FORM ONE LANE” transmogrified by some local wit to read “FORM ONE pLANEt”. Graffiti on signs in a vain attempt to make them say something else can be mildly amusing but completely ineffective. However, while it is dangerous (and illegal) to interfere with road signs, sometimes tinkering with an original symbol can achieve something worthwhile. Something much more substantial than mere pie-in-the-sky dreaming. 
The analogy of road rules is useful when thinking about the Australian constitution. Most of the road rules for our nation are found in our constitution. This foundation document “constituted” the commonwealth of Australia on the first of January 1901 and divides power between states and the central government – often referred to as “Canberra”. When the six former British colonies came together they retained most of their law making rights but agreed to give the new commonwealth the power to make laws about some specific topics. This list of so-called “heads of power” can be found in section 51 of our nation’s constitution. If there is an inconsistency between state laws and Canberra, section 109 of the constitution provides that the commonwealth law will prevail. 
Most of the nation’s constitutional road rules are unknown. Occasionally a section does attract a bit of publicity – (eg section 44 and dual citizenship) but mostly the constitution is only a matter for academics and legal students and a small group of constitutional lawyers. 
Section 71 of our nation’s road rules created the high court. Over the years, this court has gradually raised awareness of the road rules and clarified their meaning. For example, in 1983 the Tasmanian government wanted to construct a hydro-electric dam on the Gordon River, but the high court found that Canberra could prevent the project as the commonwealth had validly exercised its external affairs power when it registered the locale as a world heritage area. 
This was a prickly exchange of powers between a state and the commonwealth. Although “Canberra bashing” is almost a national pastime, the states do also occasionally voluntarily refer some of their pre-1901 powers to the commonwealth. 
The constitution has also been expanded via referendums, ie where the parliament takes a question to the Australian voters and more than half of them are needed to support the question. Furthermore, the proposal must also be carried in at least four of the six states. Since 1906 we have held 44 nation-wide referendums, spread out over 19 different occasions. But it is hard to change our road rules this way: the public has only ever said yes to eight proposals emanating from Parliament House. 
Although the words of our constitution were actually passed in a parliament in another country by men who didn’t belong here, the words were mostly crafted by blokes who actually did call Australia home. However, the nation’s birth certificate made no mention of the first Australians and the fact they had already been here for more than 60,000 years. They were not included in the drafting sessions, nor recognised in its substance. 
Section 127 used to be titled “Aborigines not to be counted in reckoning population” but this was amended by a 1967 referendum that nearly 91% of the voting public supported. 
Meanwhile in Canberra the parliament is now establishing another committee to wrestle once again with the question of Indigenous recognition in the constitution. Some simple truths are a long time in the knowing. 
The nation’s road rules got another Indigenous tweak in 1992 via chief justice Anthony Mason’s rather adventurous high court. Mabo v Queensland (No 2) recognised native title in Australia for the first time. Even though David Passi, James Rice and Eddie Mabo were Meriam people from the Torres Strait the law changed for all Australia. And that was said by some to be the end of the world as we knew it. Terra nullius was found to be a lie. 
For the first Australians who owned and managed this continent for millennia their spiritual and cultural beliefs were accepted as real by the highest court in the land. The high court found in Mabo that the legal doctrine of terra nullius which imported all of England’s road rules down under did not apply equally everywhere. The fact that people had been travelling their own songlines for around 60,000 years suddenly mattered. Existing customary laws and traditional connections to land trumped the English notion of terra nullius. The ancient past prevailed despite many acts done on behalf of the sovereign and often irrespective of white people arriving in an area. Some native title rights could be extinguished by governments, but this process was not as automatic as previously assumed when the concept of terra nullius was thought to be impregnable This enhanced sense of belonging could also be used to generally enhance Australians’ sense of stewardship of this land 
After Mabo, the commonwealth parliament passed native title legislation. From thereafter, once traditional owners showed a connection to their land they could then be involved in decisions about how best to protect it. The legislative change was one of Keating’s practical building blocks of change. 
Since the second world war this nation has accepted around seven million immigrants. They and their children and grandchildren now belong. They are connected to the land that holds the oldest footprints in the world. But there is a simple bureaucratic procedure to make all non-Indigenous Australians better belong. 
When the high court created the Mabo wave it was Keating who handed out surfboards and tried to take Australians all the way to a new beach. When the decision was handed down, some farmers and commentators and politicians went spare. Some white blokes such as Joh Bjelke-Petersen were trying to hot gospel the notion that the crown had exclusive possession forever. Eventually the cockies settled down, even after the Wik flare-up and Tim Fischer’s calls for “buckets of extinguishment”, and we ended up with an almost working set of native title registration arrangements. 
Most Australians rarely have to consider the Indigenous provenance of the property they purchase because native title rights have often been long extinguished. Who the land belonged to before the crown claimed it is rarely a question that troubles most conveyancers. Certificates of title could easily contain a record of the Indigenous group that everybody’s home used to belong to. And this could be done without enlivening any native title claims or challenging settled law. 
Most of our symbols sit outside the constitution, and land is definitely the biggest one. This nation’s founding document contemplated a shifting definition of our borders. With such a fluid definition of this nation in our birth certificate surely Australians would feel they belong even more if they can look at a certificate of title that stretches back around 3,000 generations. 
This enhanced sense of belonging could also be used to generally enhance Australians’ sense of stewardship of this land. Section 51 of our constitution contains a long list of the responsibilities of the commonwealth government but caring for country is not one of them. However, first nations have continued to have this sense of duty irrespective of the white shenanigans that have taken place in the great southern kingdom with no king. 
If the list of federal responsibilities was added to with one word, “environment”, there would be a longer term focus on decisions made about our natural landscapes. It would go some way to removing short-term politics from development decisions and ensure that the national interest is considered. Suddenly issues such as the degradation of good productive farming land, urban development, falling biodiversity, water security, and the threat of climate change would have to be factors considered by all levels of government. Different tiers of government would be more likely to work together to solve these common problems. And the commonwealth would have some stick to sit alongside the tax-dollar carrots. 
The environment belongs to all Australians, not just farmers and traditional owners. Isn’t it time this nation’s birth certificate recognised all its parents? Isn’t it time, like Vincent Lingiari 43 years before, that we pour our own sand through our own hands and walk like mates together in the future, having recognised the reality of our past? 
• Senator Patrick Dodson is shadow assistant minister for Indigenous affairs and Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders and senator for Western Australia 
• Graham Perrett MP is federal member for Moreton 