5 Incredible Ways a Bucket List Can Improve Your Life 5 Incredible Ways a Bucket List Can Improve Your Life Amanda April 8, 2018 Lifestyle , Resources , Travel Tips 
The very words “ bucket list ” can stir up some pretty heave-duty fears. Defined as a list of things to do before you die, it can be a reminder of our own mortality, and death is typically something we would rather not think about. But, the reminder that our time is limited is actually one of the best gifts we can be given. It is one that can guide us to achieve what is most important to us before it is too late. Life is short. 
We fuel our bodies with food, our minds with education and our hearts with love, but new experiences and dreams can nourish our spirit in ways that nothing else can. Whatever your goals or dreams are, there are benefits to turning them into a bucket list, a well-crafted one can push you to lead your version of an ideal life. 1. Forces You to Look at What You Really Want 
Many people will live their entire lives without having any idea as to what they really want. They will follow societies conventional expectations of getting married, working the same office job for the next twenty years, buying a home and having children ­– all without giving it a second thought because that is just what they are “supposed to do”. But, if that path is not their true passion then life will end up leading them, instead of them leading their life. What do you want? 
The process of writing a bucket list forces you to take a close look at what it is you truly desire, to analyze where you are versus where you want to be. It very well may be the career, children and home, etc., but it may also be something entirely different. 
When sitting down to contemplate what your future will look like, your dreams and what type of experiences you want to have will be brought to the forefront. By asking yourself what you truly want, setting goals and consistently reexamining your goals, you gain a self-knowledge that will propel you in the right direction. 2. Gets you Excited 
Many people’s sleepless nights are the effects from having a mind filled with countless tasks for the next day. But, what if what kept you up at night were thoughts of planning your dream vacation to spend the night at a Bedouin camp in Jordan’s Wadi Rum desert or going back to school to study French viticulture, what you are truly passionate about? Then being awake would be because of excitement, a reason to get up early in the morning and stay up late at night. 
When you are stuck in the rut of day-to-day life, it can be difficult to get excited about the day that lies ahead. A bucket list gives you a reason to spend that extra hour a day working, putting meaning behind the extra effort because the additional money will be why your dream of ice climbing in Iceland will come true. It can create an excitement deep in your soul and exposes the passion you thought you had lost many years ago. 3. Creates Focus 
A bucket list will give you a sense of direction that allows your mind to focus on the target, instead of getting sidetracked dawdling on social media or watching reruns of the Kardashians (I am admittedly guilty of that sometimes too!). It will help you determine your end goal and the steps that need to be taken to get there, keeping your eye on the prize. For example, without a clear career focus, you may just take every promotion opportunity given, switching departments and ending up as the executive production manager, when what you really wanted was to be a marketing director. 
Without clear goals it’s easy to get diverted, heading in multiple directions and years later ending up in a place you really never intended. Even with goals, if you cannot remain focused you will lose momentum, which will lead to a loss of motivation and ultimately failure at achieving the result you desire. But with your bucket list you will be able to continuously refer to it in order to re-energize your focus. 4. Motivates You 
Without motivation, your dream will be nothing more than that; it is the necessary energy that pushes you to accomplish your goals. Motivation is why race car drivers win trophies, business owners become millionaires, and it is the main reason that this is a successful blog. 
In order to truly get motivated you need to know what you really want, and writing a bucket list will help to determine exactly what that is. These goals will then be the root of your motivation. Also, having any sort of list naturally inspires you to want to cross things off of it, whether it is simply your weekly grocery-shopping list, daily to-dos or a bucket list. 5. Pushes the Boundaries Your Comfort Zone 
It has been said that life begins at the end of your comfort zone, so then why are so many afraid of stepping outside of it? I will tell you why. Being inside your comfort zone minimizes stress and risk, keeping you at a low anxiety level. This makes it very easy to never push the boundaries, because it’s pretty darn comfy inside the safety of your little bubble. 
Everyday activities like taking a shower, cooking dinner and going to work don’t create any apprehension because they are familiar. Whereas flying across the world, eating strange foreign foodsand not speaking the language of an area will undoubtedly cause trepidation. 
Unfortunately, if you stay inside of these boundaries you’ll be missing out on the incredible benefits of taking a risk. It can lead to personal growth; expanding your mindset, teaching you valuable lessons, increasing your confidence and limiting regrets. Once you step out of the norm once it can lead to a snowball effect, where each consecutive time gets a little bit easier and your comfort zone expands bigger and bigger. Related Posts 