YouTube Tightens Restrictions On Firearm Videos 
By Comment 
SAN BRUNO, Calif. (CBSDFW.COM/AP) — YouTube has tightened its restrictions on firearms videos. 
The video-serving network owned by Google is banning videos that provide instructions on how to make a firearm, ammunition, high-capacity magazines, and accessories such as bump stocks and silencers. 
The ban includes showing viewers how to install the accessories or modifications. YouTube also prohibits content about the sale of guns or firearm accessories. 
The National Sports Shooting Foundation says such restrictions “impinge on the Second Amendment.” The group worries about the potential for blocking “educational content” that instructs and improves skills. 
(© Copyright 2018 CBS Broadcasting Inc. All Rights Reserved. The Associated Press contributed to this report.) Share this: Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Notify me of follow-up comments by email. Notify me of new posts by email. More in OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
Les fabricants de smartphones ont signé un mémorandum d’entente proposé par la Commission européenne visant à... OMG 
DENTON (AP) – Roosevelt Smart scored 20 points, Jorden Duffy added 19 and North Texas used... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
Aujourd’hui, le OnePlus 5T version 64 Go est disponible pour 375 euros avec le code promo... OMG 
SURPRISE, Ariz. (AP) – Yu Darvish looked as if he would stumble on the mound, yet... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
well played “Please tell me this is a joke…” Cenk Tosun hasn’t had the easiest of... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
Le minage de monnaies virtuelles à l’insu des internautes, aussi appelé cryptojacking, a fait un bond... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
GARETH BALE knows exactly what Rory McIlroy will be going through at The Masters next month... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
La Commission européenne cherche à comprendre pourquoi, dans le remède proposé par Google pour rétablir une... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
Maur On Argentine striker has been in sensational form this season and is being targeted by... OMG By viraltop March 22, 2018 
Mark Zuckerberg s’est exprimé auprès de quatre média sur le scandale Cambridge Analytica et l’avenir de... 