Home National Mec asks staff to be impartial MMADI— Electoral staff should desist from engaging in any malpractice Mec asks staff to be impartial Posted By: Yohane Symon on: April 06, 2018 In: National No Comments 
The Malawi Electoral Commission (Mec) has called on electoral staff and stakeholders handling election matters to be impartial as a way of making sure that all election results are credible and accepted by voters. 
Mec Commissioner, Ambassador Yahaya Mmadi, made the remarks in Mangochi District on Wednesday when he opened a one-day training workshop for electoral supervisors who are handling the Mangochi Malindi Ward by-election which is slated for April 10. 
Mmadi advised elections staff to discharge their duties in line with election guidelines to avoid losing public trust in the election process. 
“The duty to make elections credible and trustworthy rests in the hands of people handling various election processes. This demands that electoral staff should desist from engaging in any malpractice that can undermine the credibility of election results,” he said. 
Mmadi said Mec would continue providing an oversight role to people who are on the ground. This, he said, would foster coordination between electoral technical staff and management. 
Unlike in Mulanje Milonde Ward, where Mec is also holding a by-election, Mmadi said Mec is pleased with the way candidates and political parties have conducted themselves during the campaign period in Mangochi, where no reports of violence have been reported. 
“We appeal to political parties to continue engaging voters through issue-based campaign to help them make an informed choice when voting for their desired candidate. Violence and partiality has no place in the election process,” he said. 
Speaking at the same meeting, Mangochi District Commissioner, Moses Chimphepo, who acts as District elections coordinator, said that all arrangements in readiness for the April 10 by elections are almost over such that people should expect a free and fair by election.