Home Sports Charity begins at Bingu National Stadium Charity begins at Bingu National Stadium Posted By: Williams Gondwa on: April 07, 2018 In: Sports No Comments 
With a week to go before the 2018 soccer season kicks off, Silver Strikers and Kamuzu Barracks (KB) host Blantyre-based heavyweights, Be Forward Wanderers and Nyasa Big Bullets, Saturday in Football Association of Malawi (Fam) Charity Shield. 
The Fisd Challenge Cup champions, KB, take on Carlsberg Cup winners, Bullets, today whereas Airtel Top 8 Trophy holders, Silvers host TNM Super League holders, Wanderers during the two-day competition at Bingu National Stadium (BNS) in Lilongwe. 
In last year’s Charity Shield, Bullets beat KB 3-1 at Civo Stadium, thanks to Muhammad Sulumba’s brace and Fischer Kondowe’s goal while Mustafa Salimu scored KB’s consolation. 
Bullets, who are determined to defend the Charity Shield for the third time in a row, have pinned their hopes on new signings Righteous Banda, Patrick Phiri and Precious Phiri. 
Bullets’ performance in pre season matches has been impressive as they have won eight out of 10 matches, with striker Bright Munthali scoring 11 goals. 
However, KB’s newly-appointed Coach, Collins Nkuna, said they are leaving no stone unturned in their quest to beat Bullets and go all the way to grab the cup. 
Nkuna, who joined KB on Tuesday, said the players are showing fighting spirit. 
“I have just spent a few days with the players here but this should not be an excuse as we are meeting Bullets because we believe that as soldiers we need to fight in whatever circumstances. The players are the same and I am assured that they will play for the love of the team,” Nkuna said. 
After KB’s match against Bullets, Silver welcome Wanderers at the same venue later. 
Silver, who have signed players such as Kuda Muyaba from Moyale Barracks FC, Jack Chiona from Dwangwa United and Lazarus Nyemera from Mzuni FC, are looking forward to beating Wanderers. 
The Central Bankers assistant Coach, Lovemore Fazili, said Wanderers were tough customers but Silver are determined to proceed to the final. 
“It is our first time to play in an official Charity Shield match and the players are happy to be part of this tournament,” Fazili said. 
But the Nomads assistant Coach, Bob Mpinganjira, said they are in the capital city to gauge their strength and see if they can win trophies in 2018 season. 
“We are here to prove that we are the league champions and we will ensure that we win the trophy. We have quality players that will give us good results this season and for sure, we are almost ready for the season,” Mpinganjira said.