Home National UDF convention slated for August LUCIUS—We have to prepare well UDF convention slated for August Posted By: Feston Malekezo   National No Comments 
The United Democratic Front (UDF) will hold its indaba from August 1 to 2, 2018 at Comesa Hall in Blantyre, a senior party official has confirmed. 
Chairperson for the convention committee, Charles Chikuwo, who is also UDF second vice-president, said the committee is working on the number of dignitaries and budget for the convention. 
He said 10 positions are up for grabs: party president and three vices, secretary general and vice, organising secretary and vice, treasurer and deputy. 
Popular musician and Balaka North Member of Parliament, Lucius Banda, has come out in the public, challenging Atupele Muluzi for the position of president. 
“The other positions will be elected at regional level. Each region will be requested to elect four names in the remaining positions which will be agreed upon by 10 members who will be elected at the national convention,” he said.. 
Banda has since confirmed that he is ready to contest for the presidency. 
“I already started groundwork. In fact, I thought the convention would be held this month but, nonetheless, August is not that bad. I understand the party has to mobilise resources for the conference. So, this will also give me ample time to prepare,” Banda said. 
Muluzi yesterday also confirmed that he would contest for the party’s presidency. 
The indaba committee chairperson said the number of dignitaries to attend the conference is likely to be reduced as compared to the previous convention in 2013, which drew over 2,000 delegates. 
“The previous convention drew over 2,000 people, the numbers are likely to be reduced. So, when we are done with the number of people who will attend, we will be able to know how much we will need,” he said. 
Muluzi has not been clear on whether the party will feature a presidential candidate in the 2019 tripartite election. 
Alliance for Democracy will know its fate today, as the High Court in Lilongwe is expected to make a ruling on a plea by Aford secretary general, Christopher Ritchie, and others to order the party to hold a convention as soon as possible.