Home National DPP secretary general dares Satan on Peter Mutharika candidacy JEFFREY—The professor will win DPP secretary general dares Satan on Peter Mutharika candidacy Posted By: Moses Chitsulo on: April 10, 2018 In: National No Comments 
Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) secretary general, Gresselder Jeffrey, has declared that, whether Satan likes it or not, President Peter Mutharika will be the party’s torchbearer in the 2019 polls and win. 
Jeffrey’s remarks come a few days after former first lady, Callista Mutharika, said the incumbent president would not win next year’s presidential elections as Vice-President Saulos Chilima is better placed to win. 
Speaking during the opening of 2018 tobacco marketing season in Lilongwe Monday, Jeffrey also said the pair of Mutharika and Chilima was intact, adding that the works of Mutharika would campaign for him in 2019. 
“ Ndipo Amalawi ali yapa, bwana, akuvomereza kuti 2019, satana afune, asafune, Professor akulamulanso dziko lino … pamodzi ndi Chilima wake ali pati? Apo! Professor akulamula ndi ndani? [And Malawians who are here, boss, do agree that, in 2019, whether Satan likes it or not, the professor will rule this country again… with his Chilima there]”. 
She said there are some people who deliberately provoke Mutharika through newspapers and radio stations but such people should know that the President is busy developing the country; hence, his silence, even when others provoke him. 
But, taking his turn, Mutharika concentrated on the business of the day—which was to launch the tobacco marketing season—with a call for unity among stakeholders in the tobacco value chain for the sake of the farmer and the nation. 
“Tobacco remains a major forex earner for this country and it will remain a strategic crop for years to come. When this industry grows, we all win and when this industry fails, we all fail,” Mutharika said. 
He called for the protection of farmers from unfair trading practices. 
Mutharika also asked the Malawi Police Service to check against the practice of smuggling tobacco to neighbouring countries.