Home National Accused testifies in Blantyre Water Board fraud case KATANI—We already brought evidence Accused testifies in Blantyre Water Board fraud case Posted By: Feston Malekezo on: April 10, 2018 In: National No Comments 
The first accused in a case in which Blantyre Water Board (BWB) lost in excess of K150 million Monday testified before the Blantyre Senior Resident Magistrate Court. 
The accused, Oscar Kapito, denied taking part in money laundering, which was done through a fake BWB Welfare Account, opened with Ned Bank Limbe Branch. 
He is being co-accused with former Blantyre Water Board Corporate Clients Officer, Brian Makote. 
In his testimony to the court, Kapito said he is a businessman who plies his trade in Limbe and he personally does not know his co-accused, Makote. 
“I have known him in the court. I have never interacted with him. In short, I don’t know him personally,” he said. 
Earlier, the court heard, through witnesses from Ned Bank, that Makote, the second accused, was the one pushing for the encashment of a K20 million cheque from BWB Social Welfare Account at Ned Bank Limbe Branch while Oscar Kapito dropped a driver’s license bearing his face when he was trying to withdraw the money. 
He run away from the banking hall when he realised that things had gone wrong. 
But Kapito denied that he has ever owned a driver’s licence. 
He also said the day the court heard that he dropped a driver’s license in the banking hall, he was in Mulanje District, where he went to buy agro-commodities for his business. 
He challenged the State to produce video footage evidence showing him inside the banking hall. 
In an interview after court proceedings, Regional Prosecuting Officer, Christopher Katani, said there is no need for them to produce video evidence, arguing that the driver’s licence is enough evidence. 
“As the State, we do not find it important to bring to the court video footage. We already brought a driver’s license which he dropped in the banking hall and it bears his face,” he said. 
The driver’s license in question bears the name of Moses D Mussa. 
Senior Resident Magistrate Viva Nyimba has adjourned the case to Friday, April 13, for cross examination.