Home National DPP ‘fires’ deputy governor over Saulos Chilima MBEWE—Mutharika is being misled DPP ‘fires’ deputy governor over Saulos Chilima Posted By: Samuel Kalimira on: April 17, 2018 In: National No Comments 
Northern Region district governors for the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) have sacked their deputy regional governor, Afiki Mbewe, three days after he endorsed Vice-President Saulos Chilima for 2019 elections. 
The governors, who disassociated themselves from Mbewe’s claims that some of them are behind the decision that Chilima should be the DPP’s touch-bearer, said they no longer want to work with Mbewe in the region. 
Rumphi West district governor, Kondwani Harawa, said: 
“Mbewe implicated us in his association with Chilima’s candidature. We are saying we are for Peter Mutharika. This is not the first time for him to implicate us in things that we do not know. 
“Last time, he said we wanted our regional governor Kenneth Sanga to resign. Should we still be keeping him? No! Let the NGC [National Governing Council] find a position for him but not here, in this region.” 
The governors from all the 22 political districts in the region argue that they have powers to fire Mbewe because they are the ones who elected him. 
Governors who spoke during the press briefing said Mbewe was invited to the briefing but he failed to show up because he knew that he lied to the country. 
But Mbewe, who said he was not invited, claimed the governors have been sent by “thugs” who have surrounded Mutharika and do not wish the country well. 
Mbewe alleged that the governors had been given money to speak against the people’s support for Chilima. 
“Let me tell the leaders who coached these governors that they will be betrayed because some of them called me giving me updates on what they have been told to speak, the K50,000 money they have pocketed and the financer. 
“If these governors were not with me, do you think they could have been updating me on what transpired there? In true sense, they are in support of Chilima and they will come out soon,” Mbewe said. 
Reacting to the governors’ demands, Sanga said he is yet to deliver the complaint to the party’s secretariat. 
But DPP spokesperson, Francis Kasaila, said the party would act on the demands after receiving the official complaint. 
University of Livingstonia political analyst, George Phiri, said firing Mbewe is not a solution to problems rocking the blue camp. 
Phiri said the governors could have just pushed for the party’s convention to vote out people that are not wanted, including those who speak against decisions made by the party. 
The press briefing was attended by some regional committee members and Presidential Advisor on Youth Affairs, Nick Masebo.