Home National Moses Kunkuyu joins MCP UNITY OF PURPOSE—Lombola (left) and Kunkuyu shake hands Moses Kunkuyu joins MCP Posted By: Serah Makondetsa on: March 22, 2018 In: National No Comments 
Transformation Alliance (TA) Chairperson Moses Kunkuyu has joined the opposition Malawi Congress Party (MCP) and has since endorsed leader of the party Lazarus Chakwera ahead of the 2019 tripartite elections. 
Speaking during a press briefing in Blantyre Wednesday, Kunyuyu said TA would like to advocate serious mature politics that involves constructive engagement in governance issues for the attainment of genuine transformative leadership. 
“We strongly spoke against myopic leaders who see no life after State House. They major in theft of public resources, promote destructive executive arrogance and rape the rule of law through stinking nepotism,” he said. 
Kunkuyu blamed politicians for eroding the county’s democratic culture and freedom, arguing MCP poses a better option to run the country and improve the welfare of Malawians. 
“We have looked at the way the political landscape is shaping up and we have seen that the race has been narrowed to two political parties, that is the ruling Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) and MCP. 
“Taking a look at the DPP’s 2014 manifesto, one would admit it was well crafted to blackmail unsuspecting voters then and most likely these remaining months the party cannot manage to fulfill the promises it made,” he said. 
MCP second vice-president for Southern Region, MacDonald Lombola, welcomed Kunkuyu, saying a lot has to be done to improve welfare of Malawians. 
“As MCP and the entire leadership, we are very happy with the choice TA has made to join and work together with MCP with a common purpose. We welcome TA with all what they are doing,” he said. 
During the briefing, TA unveiled a comprehensive document titled “The Malawi we want beyond 2019” and outlined ways on how to move forward with it to meet its inspiring contents. 
“It is a rich document that taps its aspirations from progressive contributions resulting from spirited consultations held with various patriotic and well-meaning stakeholders with unquestionable passion to see Malawi transform,” Kunkuyu said. 
Former Mzuzu University (Mzuni) Students Union president, Wazamazama Katatu, was unveiled at the briefing as one of the people who will help the party in working with the youth across the country.