Home National MPs laud Limbe Leaf’s conservation efforts SEEING IS BELIEVING —Legislators on tour MPs laud Limbe Leaf’s conservation efforts Posted By: Times Correspondent on: March 26, 2018 
The Malawi Parliament Conservation Caucus (MPCC) has lauded Limbe Leaf Tobacco for its conservation efforts, citing a 2,000 hectare tree plantation in Kasungu. 
MPCC co-Chairperson, Werani Chilenga, commended Limbe Leaf after touring the plantation last week. 
“We are more than impressed with what we have seen here. We have asked Limbe Leaf to join other stakeholders in conserving [natural resources in] Dzalanyama Forest as well,” Chilenga said. 
Dzalanyama is Lilongwe’s main source of water but illegal activities threaten the water table in the capital. 
“We will lobby the government to give land concession within Dzalanyama to the company so that they can assist to preserve natural resources there as well,” Chilenga said. 
She said that Limbe Leaf’s conservation efforts demonstrate the meaning of producing tobacco in a sustainable manner. 
“What is impressive is that Limbe Leaf is extending the expertise in tree management at this plantation to the local farmer out there and we are assured that they will produce their tobacco in a sustainable manner,” Chilenga said. 
Member of Parliament for the area, Madalitso Kazombo, said the plantation has brought other benefits to the community, citing employment opportunities for locals. 
He added that the community recently benefited from Limbe Leaf Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy in form of a maternity shelter and a kitchen at Wimbe worth K12.6 million. 
Limbe Leaf Head of Sustainability, Lloyd Barker, said the company has planted different types of tree species, including indigenous ones, on 921 hectares and will continue to add trees to the hectares every year. 
“Our intention is to be self-sufficient on fuel wood for tobacco curing. At the moment, we source wood from Total Land Care. Sustainable source of wood is key to our business,” Barker said. 
Barker added that Limbe Leaf has planted different types of bamboos on 56 hectares of the plantation as part of the sustainability initiative.