Home National Bad roads irk communities in the North MKANDAWIRE—Bad roads affecting health and agriculture sectors Bad roads irk communities in the North Posted By: Mandy Pondani   National No Comments 
As President Peter Mutharika and Minister of Transport Jappie Mhango continue to lay foundation stones for road projects across the country, people in the Northern Region feel left out. 
Bad road networks in communities in Mzimba, Rumphi and Nkhata Bay are affecting people’s livelihoods and worsening the rate of maternal mortality rates in most rural communities. 
Commenting on the 65 kilometre stretch from Luwerezi to Khosolo, Gift Nkhambule from Khosolo in Mzimba cited agriculture and health sectors as the worst hit. 
“We need an all-weather road if people are to sustain their livelihoods. I must say all other projects in health, agriculture and social welfare will remain meaningless if we can’t improve our road infrastructure,” Nkhambule said. 
The sentiments were also echoed by people of Mzimba West Constituency who said during an interface meeting that they are left out 
Chinungu Village Development Committee (VDC) Chairperson, Peter Mkandawire, said bad roads have affected sectors such as health and education in the area. 
“No one wants to come and work in an abandoned area like this, the few officers that we have are overwhelmed. But all this is because of poor road network. Should government prioritise working on the roads, the place will open up to uncounted opportunities,” said Mkandawire. 
Mkandwire said the Government of Malawi has enough resources for its people if it were not for corrupt political leaders. 
“It seems to me we have a lot of money in our coffers but someone is just being selfish. Surprisingly, our MPs [Members of Parliament] and councillors use the same roads during campaign time but when in office, they easily forget.” 
MP of the area Harry Mkandawire acknowledged that the area is lagging behind in terms of provision of basic social services but said since the needs are many, the impact of the MP and councillors cannot be felt in a day 
But Programme Manager for Church and Society in the Livingstonia Synod of the CCAP Happy Mhango said it is high time duty bearers took responsibility and departed from mere rhetoric.