Home Business ‘Hydroelectric power not enough for growth’ BANDA—We need innovations Posted By: Samuel Kalimira   Business No Comments 
As Malawi continues to face persistent power challenges, the Department of Energy Affairs in the Ministry of Natural Resources Energy and Mining has underscored the need for the country to embrace alternative energy sources. 
Speaking in Mzuzu during a five-day short course on Renewable Energy Systems Modelling and Simulation for Mzuzu University alumni, Chief Director of Energy Affairs, Chimwemwe Banda, said Malawi needs new innovations in the power sector if the country is to meet the growing energy demand to supplement hydroelectric power. 
“As of now, Malawi is going through a critical stage in the energy sector. Therefore, we must have power which is not connected to the main grid and by training more professional in the industry, we can make a difference,” Banda said. 
Banda said there is need for Malawi to consider including women in the implementation of such innovations, arguing the industry lacks women participation. 
“It is very important that women should not be left behind as we work with our partners in these projects. I am encouraged here to see that out of 30 participants involved in technical works, almost half are women,” Banda said. 
She said government is committed to working with partners to train more technicians to have reliable power supply in the country. 
Mzuzu University Testing and Training for Renewable Energy Technologies (TCRET) Coordinator, Maxon Chitawo, said h is institution is committed to equiping technicians with relevant skills in the energy sector. 
‘’Let the skills we are giving be utilised if we are really serious to have workable and sustainable innovations which can come up with a lasting solution to our energy problem’’ Chitawo said. 
One of the participants, Estrida Nyirenda, said the training has equipped them with skills to design projects using the computer. 
The training was organised by Mzuzu University with funding from the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the Department of Energy Affairs.