Home National Lazarus Chakwera cautions members against commenting on case in court Lazarus Chakwera cautions members against commenting on case in court Posted By: Mandy Pondani on: March 31, 2018 In: National No Comments 
Malawi Congress Party (MCP) party president Lazarus Chakwera has cautioned his members against making comments on the ongoing case in court between him and Richard Msowoya’s faction against his leadership style. 
“As MCP, we recognise the importance of our courts in our chosen system of government, democracy and we appreciate the need to safeguard their independence as the supreme arbiter of all legal disputes,” he said in a memo. 
Despite raising concern that the multiple court cases continue to delay the party’s electoral calendar, Chakwera states that it is not the party’s intention under his leadership to undermine the judges’ role of adjudicating over matters brought before them. 
He said that an independent and impartial judiciary is a bulwark against executive excesses, saying it is key in maintaining law and order of the society 
“…It would also be out of order to attempt through this communication to argue on the merits and demerits of the lawsuits as the cases remain sub judice. As such, unlike other parties, we shall desist from arguing the cases in the media as long as our courts remain ceased of the matters,” adds the communication. 
Chakwera advised the party membership to exercise restraint and patience as the party’s legal team works on resolving the court matters saying it is an important process if the party is to strengthen its foundations. 
The MCP has over the years survived such leadership wrangles and remained steadfast. 
Immediately after the party lost the election to the United Democratic Front (UDF), a leadership wrangle broke out between two party heavyweights; John Tembo and late Gwanda Chakuamba. 
Msowoya was suspended from his position as First Deputy President, Kaliwo as Secretary General, Tony Kandiero as Director of International relations, and James Chatonda Kaunda as First Deputy Secretary General. 
The Nec meeting also resolved to suspend Salima North West Member of parliament, Jessie Kabwila from the party. 
But early this month, the faction challenged the Nec decision and asked the court to halt the party’s convention scheduled for April 4 – 7.