GMT+2 02:03 Home National US grants K146 million to ten organisations FOR A GOOD CAUSE— Palmer (3rd left) celebrates with the beneficiary group representiaves after the signing ceremony US grants K146 million to ten organisations Posted By: Sam Banda on: March 31, 2018 In: National No Comments 
United States has awarded K146.2 million to 10 organisations working in 10 districts across the country. 
The funds were awarded through the US Ambassador’s President’s Emergency Plan For Aids Relief (Pepfar) Small Grants Programme. 
US Ambassador to Malawi, Virginia Palmer, said: “through these projects, we can reach those most at risk (including adolescent girls, and young people living with HIV/Aids), through targeted interventions and comprehensive care.” 
Palmer said there is need to find creative ways to make HIV services even more accessible. 
“We need to identify those not tested, and, if found positive, not only put them on treatment, but ensure they remain on, and adhere to, such treatment,” she said. 
Palmer said these projects enable the US government to continue to support the people – and the government – of Malawi in its ‘Test and Treat’ policy to help reach the 90-90-90 targets and ultimately achieve an Aids-free generation. 
She said the projects are expected to ensure voices from youth born and living with HIV/ Aids are heard in helping fellow youth make informed choices on HIV prevention, treatment, and adherence. 
The programme is also expected to implement targeted testing and adherence interventions which are supported through innovative approaches that reach adolescents with a particular emphasis on male adolescents. 
The projects will also address cultural norms and laws that create barriers to equal access to health services for young people living with, and affected by HIV/ Aids. 
According to Palmer, the projects will also identify gaps in service provision to people living with HIV/Aids, and develop realistic solutions for improved service delivery to these individuals. 
The grant recipients include Centre for Rural Development from Thyolo District, Communities in Development Activities from Mzimba District, Foundation for Capacity and Community Development from Nkhotakota District, Friends of Aids Trust from Nsanje District and Positive Steps from Balaka District. 
The others are Golomoti Aids Support Organisation from Dedza District, Malawi Aids counselling and Resource Organisation from Lilongwe, Malawi Union of the Blind from Blantyre, Ntchisi Evangelical Churches Consortium for Social Services and St John’s Hospital from Mzimba and Mzuzu. 
The US Ambassador’s Pepfar Small Grants is a programme under Pepfar that funds small and innovative community-driven projects in the country. 
For the past five years, the programme has provided grants totaling over K420 million to community-based organisations and non-governmental organisations that work to fight HIV/Aids epidemic.