Home Sports Adams Sailesi wins Professional Golfers Association trophy PROFESSIONALS—Sailesi (2nd right) and other golfers Adams Sailesi wins Professional Golfers Association trophy Posted By: Benjamin Maona on: March 31, 2018 In: Sports No Comments 
Adams Sailesi won the Professional Golfers Association (PGA) of Malawi launch trophy held at Blantyre Sports Club (BSC) on Thursday. 
Sailesi, who beat eight other golfers with a score of 11-over par, said his secret was to play without minding other people’s business. 
“On Wednesday, I finished with a tie on first position with Victor Kachepatsonga and on Thursday, I tried to work hard so as to beat him. So, I only concentrated on my play. Otherwise, I am happy to have won the trophy on the day of the launch of the association,” he said. 
Sailesi went home with K300,000 and a trophy, while runner-up Paul Chidale (13-over par) received K200,000. 
Victor Kachepatsonga (16- over par) came third and pocket K150,000, whereas Kondwani Nkula received K120,000 for finishing fourth. 
Mphatso Shaibu and Gabriel Kambalame jointly finished fifth and took home K90,000 each. 
PGA Malawi interim President, Partridge Shycal, said the association was there to transform golfers’ lives in the country. 
“For many years, golfers have not been able to benefit something from their skills because we have been playing as amateurs. Rules forbid amateurs from getting monetary prizes. So, it is about television sets, microwaves, trophies and other prizes. But we want golfers to play the game and make their salaries from playing as it is done in other countries,” Shycal said. 
Shycal further said they want to host four local tournaments this year. He added that they were talking to other PGAs from Zambia and Zimbabwe for possible international tournaments. 
Golf Union of Malawi (GUoM) President, Hudson Kantwanje, commended PGA for the initiative. 
“People think that there would be conflict between the two bodies, but I say we will work together because our aim is to promote golf in the country. Our focus is on the development of amateurs and junior golfers who can graduate into the professional ranks. So, as the mother body, we will support the new kid on the block,” Kantwanje said. 
FDH Bank sponsored the tournament.