Home National ICT key in promoting women in politics ICT GRADUATES—To enhance women participation in online forums ICT key in promoting women in politics Posted By: Times Correspondent on: April 05, 2018 In: National No Comments 
The National Initiative for Civic Education (Nice) Public Trust has said increasing access to information, communication and technology (ICT) services is critical to promoting women’s participation in politics. 
Lilongwe Urban Nice District Advisory Forum (DAF) member, Hameed Kongwe, said this when he presented certificates to 82 girls and women who have completed ITC, computer and fashioning and designing studies. 
Under the Nice Ambassador for Girls Empowerment Project, the organisation is providing free ITC, computer and fashioning and designing lessons to women and girls to enable them actively participate in governance, political and social life. 
Kongwe said women and girls continue to be underrepresented in political, governance, social and leadership positions, largely because their voice in decision-making platforms is ignored. 
“Women hold a lower percentage of participation in governance, democratic, political life and decision-making systems both at community and national level. 
“This means that women are underrepresented in all facets of the political process often due to social-cultural barriers, the absence of training and resources for women’s political organising, standards of living and precarious economic challenges,” he said. 
He said research shows that women and girls are more active and committed to participating in online interactive platforms; hence, the need to equip them with necessary skills to advance their issues through such forums. 
Nice District Civic Education Officer (Lilongwe Urban), Hajira Ali, said her organisation introduced free computer lessons to create civic empowerment for girls and women who rarely participate in social and geopolitical activities. 
Ali said at least 1,000 girls and women have benefitted from the initiative. 
“Out of these, we have seen a number of women and girls securing jobs with various shopping malls as till operators, among other things,” she said.