Dist: 55,4 km Start: 08:05 End: 18:45 
The wind calmed down fully over night, the sea was still about 1,50 m. Launching at a moderate steep gravel beach was still a bit tricky. We had to wait, each one a toggle in her hand, for about ten breakers washing high up, before I could launch Franca after she quickly jumped in and closed her spray deck. She just felt a bit disorientated between a bunch of big rocks before she really paddled out of the possible breaker zone. 
I had told her to wait “in front of” the huge rock, meaning surely the area were the water was caml in the lee of the breakers. She was rather seeing it from the perspective of the moving water, and also meant actually some other huge rocks…communication problems…we fixed that later. 
She had to crest one fat breaker beofre she got out of the reef area..while I was standing at the beach with some pounding heart beat. I case she got thrown, I could not do much from standing on the beach..like with José in Pacific City weeks ago… 
When she was sitting in a safe place, I started to launch myself…dragging the heavy kayak close to the wash was already a job, keeping it there when three or four larger ones came just in, another. I could hold it halfway straight, but got the cockpit flooded to a quarter. WTF…I pushed it in anyway after the next lower breaker, but a criss cross wave filled the cockpit now half full…which felt when I was inside like almost fully swamped. Not good…I closed the deck anyway and paddled off like hell…and as to be exected on a fine gravel beach, I could not deploy my rudder fin with my launching string myself. Simply to stuck…f…! 
I sweep stroked on the right heaviest to stay away from the rocks, and balanced my flooded kayak. Pumping and sweep stroking hard, I made it just out of the main danger area, toward Franca’s waiting spot, scraping over a low rock. I called her to come to me, to urgently help to deploy my rudder fin. Thanks! We used both manual pumps to drain my kayak, still my backside felt wet and cold all day, including the lower leg part. High time for a new dry suit, Arcata with Kokatat is near! 
The paddle was quite relaxed along mostly sandy beaches, Franca held up well for the relatively long distance. It was her longest day in her three years of sea kayaking! Good girl! She is 61… 
She tried my spare wing paddle for a while, but was amazingly better off and faster with her also very light weight Werner blade. Many crab fishing boats out here today, using the calm weather to harvest the many pods. We spotted about 4-5 whales, always a pleasure! 
When we reached Scotty Point behind Patrick’s Point which marked the end of the long beach, we looked back and found a small cove with a strange style of modern rock art…about six young guys were just busy spraying the whole cove with their graffiti! PIGS! They felt for good reason like caught in the act, and ran quickly away from us and our cameras…what a pity I didn’t raise mine earlier…! The smell of fresh spray paint lay over the water, when we kept on paddling and ran almost over a spear fishing diver. 
The first wonderful sandy beach was ours, we saw no reason to paddle into town. a small surf break sent us in, and we were safe on almost low tide on a shallow sandy beach. Great day, great distance, great endurance paddle! Thanks for your lovely company, Franca! 
We have a slight bit of a communication issue, as she is native Italian and I am native German…I speak very fast, and she loves her “hä?” when she didn’t get my fast speaking…match! And we mutually love to fall into each others speech 🙂 perfect match also! European tempers…Lol! But never running out of subjects…