Afsløring: PSG-Stjerne spiste kebab inden træning Af Daniel Bakhauge | 04/04/2018 13:31 
Den anerkendte twitterkonto Get French Football er ude med vilde afsløringer omkring Hatem Ben Arfa. 
Get French Football har de seneste par dage været ude med nogle vilde afsløringer omkring den tidligere stjernespiller Hatem Ben Arfa. 
Læs også: Stort Liverpool-boost: Manchester City uden deres store stjerne 
Kebabspisning, mobning, handler og bytteaftaler som faldt igennem og kontroverser med PSG præsidenten Al Khelaifi. Se selv alle de nedenstående tweets og læs, hvorfor at man ikke hører så meget til Hatem Ben Arfa og hans faldende karriere. 
Læs også: Officielt: FCK’er siger farvel – Tæt på Ajax 
Hatem Ben Arfa er blevet 31 år og har tidligere spillet i klubber som Lyon, Marseille, Newcastle, Hull og Nice. Hatem Ben Arfa told Unai Emery in the spring of 2017 after Barcelona's remontada that he would never pass the quarter-finals of the Champions' League, even with the best team in the world, according to France Football. 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 Hatem Ben Arfa was also known to do little imitations of PSG manager Unai Emery's attempts to speak French for the other players. (FF) 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 At the end of a training session in April 2017, Hatem Ben Arfa joked to the Emir of Qatar Al Thani about how he was more accessible than President Al Khelaifi, who had been dodging meetings with the Frenchman. Al Khelaifi, humiliated, ensured Ben Arfa didn't play for PSG again. 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 Hatem Ben Arfa announced on Instagram last week that he is leaving PSG when his contract ends this summer – he is now thinking about how best to celebrate his birthday on April 5th & is tempted to bring everyone pizza in the PSG dressing room to provoke the club's staff. (FF) 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 In an autumn 2016 training session, Unai Emery said the following to Hatem Ben Arfa after the latter was being particularly selfish on the ball: "Stop taking yourself for Messi. You're not Messi." (FF) 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 5 months following his arrival, then PSG Director of Football Patrick Kluivert told Hatem Ben Arfa: "You have to leave, the manager doesn't want you, we have found you a club, Fenerbahce, you'll see Turkey is a good league." Ben Arfa ignored him. (FF) 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 Last summer, a Hatem Ben Arfa + money – Jean Michaël Seri swap deal was in the works on transfer deadline day, with Mario Balotelli even calling Ben Arfa to make him come back to Nice – everything else was agreed, but Ben Arfa said no. (FF) 
— Get French Football (@GFFN) 2. april 2018 Hatem Ben Arfa has previously been spotted by a PSG employee eating a kebab in the Camp des Loges training ground parking lot, according to @parisunited6 's new book. Tags: Hatem Ben Arfa Foreslåede artikler