Del på Twitter | Kommissionens kommentarer til dom C-278/05, som blev afsagt d. 25. januar 2007. 
The Commission today took note of the judgement C-278/05 on the approximation of the laws of Member States relating to the protection of employees in the event of the insolvency of their employer. It is the first time that the European Court of Justice gives a ruling on Article 8 of the directive and clarifies its contents. On the issue of the level of protection of pension rights, the Court makes it clear that the United Kingdom system, which can lead to situations where the guarantee of benefits is limited to 20 or 49 % of the expected entitlement, does not provide the level of protection required by the Directive. The judgement makes clear, however, that where a pension scheme is not fully reimbursed following insolvency of the company, there is no obligation on the Member States themselves to fund the right to benefits or to ensure that there is a full guarantee of these rights. On the issue of liability, the Court states that it is up to the national court to determine whether there has been a manifest and grave disregard by the state for the limits set out on its discretion. Having regard to the considerations of the Court on such factors as the lack of clarity and precision of Article 8 of the Directive, it seems unlikely that this is the case. The Commission is examining the contents of the judgment and the considerations of the ECJ and will take the appropriate steps, if necessary. Baggrund 
Sagen startede med at en britisk domstol spurge EF-Domstolen om følgende: Skal artikel 8 i direktiv 80/987/EØF fortolkes således, at medlemsstaterne er forpligtede til med de fornødne foranstaltninger at sikre, at de rettigheder, som arbejdstagerne har optjent under supplerende faglige eller tværfaglige forsikringsordninger fuldt ud dækkes af medlemsstaterne i tilfælde af, at arbejdstagerens private arbejdsgiver bliver insolvent, og aktiverne i deres pensionsordninger er utilstrækkelige til at dække disse ydelser? Se hele anmodningen . 
 