[ 4 April 2018 ] Spotify Is, For Now, The World’s Most Valuable Music Company NEWS Search for: Home Indie Artists J-Hen: “Gypsy Girl” Possesses a feel that is sure to identify with today’s fans J-Hen: “Gypsy Girl” Possesses a feel that is sure to identify with today’s fans 4 April 2018 Pump It Up Magazine Indie Artists , MUSIC 0 Self-taught singer, songwriter and producer, J-Hen , is an R&B/Pop Billboard recording artist from the Dallas metroplex area. He is a Grammy member and has had success on the Billboard Charts with his single, ‘Sex Instructor’, which peaked at #2 on the Hot R&B/HipHop Single Sales Billboard chart in 2012. His album, ‘Envision’, peaked at #46 and was on the Billboard chart in 2014. While his latest album, ‘On To The Next’, peaked at #8 and was on the Billboard chart in 2017. Now J-Hen bounces right back in 2018 with another potential chart breaker in the shape of his banging new single, “Gypsy Girl” . Contemporary R&B is not at one of its strong points currently. I usually turn off the radio when I hear what some of these guys are dishing out. Sure, there’ll be a good tune once in a while, but for the most part the genre in the mainstream is stale. Sometimes a guy will come in and seal up the genre with a massive song, and make it virtually impossible for anyone else to get any attention. J-Hen plans to be one of those type of guys with his latest single, produced by Christopher Billik aka OZ . The production is slick and strong throughout, so expect something top level. I decided to take a listen. What I found was a tightly produced, well performed song that had some of the best hooks I’ve heard in a while. The lyrical matter was pretty clever too (as was the narrative in the smartly shot video by Jeff Adair, featuring Katherine Moran as the Gypsy Girl). And J-Hen had a way about singing it that gave the song an added sense of emotion, that some of his contemporaries probably just couldn’t do. Like most R&B projects, the track is make or break on how much you enjoy J-Hen voice. Luckily he’s way ahead of his peers, showing a great range that makes “Gypsy Girl” somewhat unique. J-Hen has certainly crafted something strong here, as “Gypsy Girl” blew me away for a good portion of its duration, and kept me thoroughly entertained during the rest of it. This is a perfect example of a straight fire and creative club track that doesn’t exhaust the listener. Possessing a feel that is sure to identify with today’s fans, I’d bet that staying right here in this lane, J-Hen could really forge a path for himself that is distinct from the rest of the R&B pretenders in the industry. If there is one thing that “Gypsy Girl” proves, it’s that J-Hen is far more successful taking his own risks than trying to follow what his contemporaries are doing. 