Gefällt mir Lade … Rate this post 
There are some songs from the seventies which exist in Elvis‘ back catalogue which have almost been forgotten and the quality of the recordings deserve wider recognition. On such song is „I’m Leavin'“ which Elvis recorded in Nashville on 21 June 1971 and despite being issued as a single was never released on an album in Elvis‘ lifetime or indeed, as was far too often the case, received next to no publicity from his record label probably on the assumption that Elvis‘ name alone would sell records and whilst to an extent there is some truth in that it would not amount to enough to make songs such as this the memorable hit that it merited. 
In the light of Elvis‘ recording sessions being released in more and more completeness through a combination of bootleg and FTD albums a further „tragedy“ has come to light regarding „I’m Leavin'“ as almost all of the tapes from this session are missing and we do not have the opportunity of hearing Elvis build this song into the final master. Fortunately the first three takes do survive but these only serve to whet the appetite for more of what seems to not exist as the first take is breathtaking and then between takes 3 and 4 he acknowledged his fondness for the song, saying, ‚Phew man, it’s tough, but the thing is worth working on‘. The song itself is moody and restrained and Elvis did not rely on his pipes to carry this song, instead relying on his artistic sensibilities to get the song’s story across … Elvis and his group committed a good deal of hard, sustained effort to I’m Leavin‘, they were not rushing through this one. The missing tapes is so much of an issue that even RCA themselves are unsure of exactly which take constitutes the master as it is the only take other than one to three which seems to still exist and the following song recorded„We Can Make The Morning“ only has the master in existence. 
Elvis added the song to the setlist for his fifth Las Vegas Season from 9 August to 6 September and there are many good versions throughout that season and he then continued to use it as he went on tour that November with the version from Boston on 11 November 1971 a standout. Despite apparently excluding the song from his setlist until his January / February 1973 season in Las Vegas it was in his mind to use the song during his August 1972 season in Vegas as he rehearsed the song on the Hilton’s main showroom stage three days on the trot from 2 thru 4 August the latter of which being the afternoon of his opening night but the song was still excluded from his setlist. The first and last of these rehearsals were recorded on ordinary C60 cassettes at the soundboard presumably for Elvis‘ reference purposes and these have been officially released by FTD with this version from 2 August on the album „Destination Vegas“ and the latter version on the album „3000 Paradise Road“. These were very interesting stage rehearsals indeed as Elvis also ran through full versions of „Any Day Now“ and „True Love Travels On A Gravel Road“ but similarly to „I’m Leavin'“ both were dropped before the opening show. 
Further rehearsals of the song can be heard as Elvis prepared for his August 1974 season in Las Vegas and his now legendary short lived setlist revamp in RCA’s Hollywood studios and this can be heard on FTD’s „From Sunset To Vegas“ although on this occasion it was retained on the setlist as that particular season began. Teilen mit: 