Home / Android Apps / Fleksy + GIF Keyboard v9.5.0 APK Fleksy + GIF Keyboard v9.5.0 APK 
Fleksy just broke the World Record for Fastest Texting! Fleksy Keyboard Fleksy is a new, revolutionary keyboard, powered by patent pending technology that makes typing on any device fast, accurate and so easy you can type without even looking. 
MOVE BEYOND PREDICTION The power behind Fleksy is its unique technology based on Geometric Intelligence. Imprecise? Sloppy typing? No problem! Fleksy will know what word you meant to type even if you tap on all the wrong letters. The patent pending technology doesn’t just look at the letters you press. It looks at WHERE you tap and analyzes your typing pattern to understand the word you meant to type. 
There’s nothing out there like Fleksy. It’s so powerful that you can type without even looking at your keyboard. 
UNIQUE GESTURE SYSTEM With just a swipe of your finger, you can easily accomplish tasks such as punctuation, spaces, hit return, add words to your personal dictionary and much more. The unique gesture system maximizes typing comfort and makes typing just as easy as typing on your laptop. 
FASTEST IN THE WORLD Fleksy is the most comfortable, most accurate smartphone typing experience in the world.It’s now also the fastest. The official Guinness World Record for fastest typing on a smartphone was broken with Fleksy on May 2014. 
SEE MORE OF YOUR SCREEN Personalize Fleksy to meet your needs with multiple layout options to reclaim your screen real estate. The unique gesture system allows you to minimize the keyboard to three lines or even choose to use the invisible keyboard to see 100% of your screen while accurately typing on your touchscreen. 
CLOUD CUSTOMIZATION Fleksy adjusts further to your writing style through My Fleksy Cloud service! Teach Fleksy your unique writing style by linking your email and social networks, then backup and sync seamlessly across your devices. 
FRESH, FUN, FAST Track your stats and master typing without looking through My Badges! Earn all 30 badges like “Invisible Master”, “Dash Swiper”, “Fleksy Bird” and “King of Keyboards” for your collection. 
LANGUAGE SUPPORT Fleksy keyboard supports Dutch, English, French, German, Greek, Italian, Portuguese, Russian, Spanish and Turkish. Arabic 