read online han wen After awing the NYFW attendees with an impressive installation at Bleecker Street’s Overthrow Boxing Club in February, Han Wen reveals the zestfully soigné lookbook for the Autumn/Winter 2018 collection. Inspired by the mystery movie Atomic Blonde , Han Wen , the burgeoning designer behind the eponymous brand, explores silhouettes and styling “to create the image of a [woman] who is effortless yet charming, gentle yet fearless, boyish yet feminine, collective and sophisticated yet most of all badass.” full looks. Han Wen Autumn Winter 2018 full looks. Han Wen Autumn Winter 2018 
Building on his distinctive quasi-architectural designs and with juxtaposition being the leitmotif in Wen ’s collections, in this lookbook he pushes the boundaries of youth culture, creating a comfortably cosy yet classy atmosphere that embodies the brand’s ethos. Drawing from the unusual elements from David Leitch’s thriller, Wen ’s AW18 collection comprises uniquely playful designs in the form of outerwear, dresses, skirts, shirts, and trousers rife with textures and patterns — from velvet and leather to plaid. Subdued yet striking, Wen offers a refreshingly modern twist on classic pieces with a pinch of deconstruction and reconstruction. Marrying feminine and masculine energies, these boundary-pushing designs are rounded off by the statement gravity-defying pearl jewellery and workwear inspired yet luxurious accessories with meaningful and functional detailing. full looks. Han Wen Autumn Winter 2018 full looks. Han Wen Autumn Winter 2018 
A contemporary collection worthy of Lorraine Broughton’s sensuality and savagery, Wen ’s impassioned attention to detail perfectly merges couture construction and wearability; rendering the clothes both edgy and sartorially delicate. Captured and envisioned by fashion’s favourite Dalong Yang, the lookbook sees models Anna Rubin, Ria Serebryakova, Scott Camaran, and Max Slusarczyk clad in Wen’s transformative pieces, portraying a carefree rebellious youth with unparalleled contemporary elegance. full looks. Han Wen Autumn Winter 2018 full looks. Han Wen Autumn Winter 2018