Text: Fabrizia Malgieri Published on the 5th of Apr 2018 at 13 
My.com has today announced some important news regarding Armored Warfare, the online shooter that released in 2014 on PC and earlier this year on PS4. It turns out that the studio has decided to change up its approach regarding the development cycle for the game, favouring a method of content distribution they're calling Seasons. 
Just as the new name suggests, these new expansions will offer story-driven content which will last for several months, with their purpose being to replace the current structure (which is based on updates). According to My.com, these Seasons will consist of chapters which are connected to each other through a special version of the game's co-op mode. According to the company, each season will, via its respective chapters, introduce content such as new vehicles, PvP maps, and thematic decals, prizes, and avatars. 
Regarding the narrative that glues the different Seasons together, players will follow the story of Magnus, a former mercenary who has been betrayed and is looking for revenge, and he'll accompany us throughout the different seasons coming to Armored Warfare. The first season - Black Sea Incursion - will kick off this spring on PC, while on PlayStation 4 it'll arrive later in the year. However, console players will still be able to participate in special operations missions as early as May. Along with the new season, new features will also be introduced: 
Campaign Missions A series of two separate campaign missions - one for the PvP modes and one for the PvE mode. Tank commanders will be able to participate in a large number of missions of various difficulty levels to earn epic rewards, including special vehicle skins. 
Brand- new Interface with World Map A redesign of the default Garage view to match that of a world-spanning conflict of 2042. As a mercenary commander, players will be able to choose their missions on a large map while participating in faction warfare, campaign missions and much more. 
Battalion Competitive Mode Assemble a battalion and pit crews against ruthless enemies. Glory and prizes await the winners with the first version of a Battalion competitive mode coming this season. 
Israeli Main Battle Tank Progression Line From the Super Sherman tanks to the latest Merkavas, this line covers all the essential Israeli models from the 1950s to the near future. Commanders are taken on a a trip through the Israeli armor history and experience each of the legendary machines first hand. 
Armor Inspector Ever wanted to see how exactly does each tank's armor functions? The Armor Inspector feature will allow to do just that with each tank laid bare. Learn each vehicles armor composition, layout and, most importantly, weak spots. 
For more details, you can watch the announcement trailer below. Related texts