Spider-Man: no microtransactions, play as Mary Jane The sandbox will be bigger than Sunset Overdrive, and it's going to be locked at 30FPS. Text: Fabrizia Malgieri Published on the 5th of Apr 2018 at 12 
After yesterday's announcement of Spider-Man's release date, which we now know will be available on PlayStation 4 on September 7, some very interesting details have emerged thanks to the latest issue of Game Informer . 
Among the information revealed in the magazine, creative director Bryan Intihar has confirmed that the game will not include any microtransactions. In fact, Intihar has revealed that the studio has never thought of including them in the game and added that Sony has never put pressure on them to do so, and therefore all in-game content will be unlocked simply by playing. 
Another interesting feature is that, among the playable characters and in addition to good ol' Spidey, players will also be able to take control Mary Jane, although at the moment it's not clear how and when we can play as her. Also, in addition to the bonus costumes linked to the various retail editions, Spider-Man will also include a photo mode with which players can take pictures or selfies with NPCs, striking specific poses. 
With regards to the map size, Insomniac reiterated that it will be particularly big. In quantifying the actual size of the playing area, Intihar said that Spider-Man will have a much larger sandbox than the one seen in Sunset Overdrive, and it can be crossed more quickly using "fast travel" that comes in the form of the New York subway. 
Obviously, as happens in any sandbox game, players can perform main and secondary missions. In the latter players will have to deal with different types of villains and their various mission types, such as defusing bombs scattered across New York by Taskmaster, destroying Kingpin's outposts, and tackling Shocker. However, it won't just be about action, as players will also have some less demanding missions available, such as picking up items to craft certain objects, answering police calls for robberies and chases, finding old backpacks, and so on. 
Finally, Intihar revealed the Spider-Man is going to run at 30 frames-per-second, and that's on both Playstation 4 and the Pro console. Related texts