Spider-Man release date for PS4 unveiled The game will swing onto a PlayStation 4 system near you in September. 1 comment 
It will come out this year as previously suggested, and it'll come close to the end of August, as previously rumoured. Spider-Man will launch on PS4 on September 7, as Sony just made official. 
At the same time, Insomniac Games has released a new screenshot gallery (plus they unveiled the official boxart) and you can see it below, and the studio has also detailed the different editions that will come out that day. There'll be a Digital Deluxe Edition including additional downloadable content, and also a Collector's Edition - as pictured below - which adds a Steelbook case, an artbook, and the Gentle Giant statue pictured below. 
The game is also ready to pre-order, as shown on the following trailer. Check it out and let us know if this is one you'll be picking up later this year. Related texts ActionJackson on the 5th of April 2018 at 01:54. I love Sonys 'special editions' where it says 'custom steelboOk'and underneath that it states clearly 'includes full game' really? Are you sure Sony?? I mean Ive got my 'elfin' sticker here and my amazing 'dynamic' theme are you sure no really sure youre going to let me have the 'full' game, WOW!!! Thank you you really are too kind what??? Youre putting up the cost of the yearly subscription but are no longer going to support the PSVITA through the subscription?? Oh thats great wh-what?? you promise (and this is essential here youre going to continue to release incomplete over hyped plop you claim to be or insinuate to be console exclusives like 'The Witness, No Mans Sky and The Order 1886 (OK that one is but its truly awful,) and you promise to release a console called the PS4 PRO which is so elfin magnificent that it neither runs at true native 4K or supports its manufacturers 'ULTRA 4K disks'. Thats great news Sony I thank you so very much and thank you for continuing to support 'The players' you, at least Spider Man is being helmed by the mighty 'Insomniac games' who I dont think have ever placed a foot wrong, history dictates they're product is always first rate unlike the parent company in question here ! p