
I know that there are a lot of people skipping the breakfast they think is good to do so they help to lose weight … 
But nothing is far from the truth It is not! 
The reality … this is supported by many studies. People who eat healthy breakfast every day eat less calories during the day and obey a healthy diet. 
And after all, these people will lose weight and body fat on a regular basis than those who skip breakfast. 
And I think I can break it down a bit more … You see … that your metabolism is like a steam locomotive. You need to continue supplying fuel to the fire extinguisher to keep a sufficiently warm fire to boil water to make steam. 
It is the same for your body. You need to push that fire in order to keep your metabolism hot enough to burn fat. Do not forget what happened at the speed of 7-9 hours. You need food! 
So, if you skip breakfast on a regular basis … your metabolism is not optimal. You are not burning fat. 
And this is one of the best, easiest tricks to burn your body fat. Eat food that supports your metabolism and burns fat all day. 
This is my proposal. Please try eating a good quality healthy breakfast within 30 minutes of getting up. But Matt … I do not have time! 
There is no problem with medaka … I am making a great suggestion for you … get up early 20 minutes early in the morning or prepare breakfast at night before going to bed. Breakfast is important and if you seriously consider wanting to lose weight, you should not ignore it. 
And you know that you have more pep, "pep" is good. That means you are more active and you are getting more active. As you heat up burning … 
Wow! 
But what if you are not hungry? When I get up in the morning, please do what I did first. Drink a glass of water. I think you will feel that you are more hungry … 
And if you are one of the earliest birds who prefers to exercise early in the morning … once again, 30 minutes a few minutes before you exercise. 
There is a way to my craziness! You will find that your muscles need energy when exercising. If you are not eating something yet, your muscles will take away from Peter to pay Paul. It is correct … your muscles will metabolize your other muscles to gain energy for doing your exercise. It is not body fat! So after your exercise (if you do not eat anything in advance), you actually have less muscle and the same body fat left. 
When it says like this … There surely has meaning? 
This is what I propose if you want to train with super busy: 
I eat yoghurt and fruit snacks. After that, regularly eat healthy breakfast. Or you can eat half of breakfast before and after the exercise. Or just drink the protein shake before eating breakfast after breakfast. 
Your body is to eat something. You can use your body before you work absolutely. If you are serious about thinking about losing your body fat, let's eat breakfast every morning every morning. 