Boss Key puts Lawbreakers development on hold Studio to pursue new projects. Text: Mike Holmes   09 
Lawbreakers , the gravity-defying shooter from Boss Key Productions, has been put on ice after the studio announced today that it was moving on to new projects with "fresh creative leaders". 
The shooter, helmed by prominent developer Cliff Bleszinski ( Gears of War ), failed to build a community when it launched last year, despite the fact that it was actually really quite good. After a disappointing launch, the game failed to gain enough traction in the months thereafter, even with post-launch support, and so the developers are calling on time on its development. 
If you're among those who still play the sci-fi FPS, worry not as Boss Key has committed to supporting the game in its current state, with the eventual aim to give Lawbreakers "the second life it deserves". 
It has been a while since we said anything about LawBreakers. With that, the past four months at Boss Key Productions has been especially trying, as we pride ourselves at being communicative and transparent. 
So here is the very real truth, which may not come as a surprise. 
The fact is LawBreakers failed to find enough of an audience to generate the funds necessary to keep it sustained in the manner we had originally planned for and anticipated. And while a pivot to free-to-play may seem like [the] easiest change to make, a change of this magnitude takes publishing planning and resources to do it. 
The team here has worked hard on this game over the past three and a half years and our studio is determined to give this game the second life it deserves. However, between now and then, we cannot sit idle. We will continue to support the game in its current state, but we also need to focus on other projects with fresh creative leaders. We have been working on something new and we can't wait to share more about it. It's a passion project that we're in complete control of. 
Thank you for your ongoing understanding and patience. 
The statement was published directly on the company's official website , and in a follow up to PC Gamer it was confirmed that the studio's next game will not be related to Lawbreakers and publisher Nexon will not be involved with whatever they do next. Related texts