WoW: Battle for Azeroth release date revealed The expansion will be available in August. Text: Fabrizia Malgieri   09 
After being announced last November during BlizzCon, Blizzard finally revealed the release date for World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth . The new expansion will be available on August 14, and it'll come in several editions, starting with a Collector's Edition. 
In Battle for Azeroth, players will explore the ranks of Azeroth, commanding one of the six new playable races. Players can already purchase it here and they can get a level 110 boost to use immediately. Those who pre-purchase the seventh World of Warcraft expansion can start their journey and recruit the first four of the new Allied Breeds. 
Players can purchase three different editions of World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth . There's the Standard Edition (physical and digital at €44.99/£39.99), the Digital Edition deluxe (suggested price €59.99/£52.99), and the Collector's Edition. The Digital Edition includes game bonuses for several Blizzard titles, including the Seabraid Stallion (Alliance) mount, Gilded Ravasaur (Horde) mount, and Tottle the Baby Tortollan pet for World of Warcraft; an "Azeroth Is Burning" card back for Hearthstone; a Primal Flamesaber mount in Heroes of the Storm ; Horde and Alliance sprays for StarCraft II; and a collection of faction-themed extras for Overwatch . 
As for the Collector's Edition, this is sold for €99.99/£89.99 exclusively at retailers. In addition to the game items found in the Deluxe Digital Edition, the Collector's Edition contains a number of items to support one's faction, including: 
Horde & Alliance Double-Sided Mark of Allegiance: Declare your allegiance with this hefty two-sided emblem (stand included). Place it on your desk or shelf and proclaim your chosen faction to the world. Hardcover Double-Sided Book: Elegy & A Good War: This limited-edition hardback collects two new World of Warcraft novellas depicting the Burning of Teldrassil from the points of view of the Alliance and the Horde. Each story includes original artwork exclusive to this edition.†† Written by Christie Golden and Robert Brooks. Battle for Azeroth Digital Soundtrack: Each Collector's Edition contains a key to download the stirring orchestral pieces from the expansion's soundtrack—the perfect mood music for laying siege to your enemies. 
The Collector's Edition World of Warcraft: Battle for Azeroth is now available for pre-orders. Stocks are limited though. For players who have already pre-purchased the digital edition of the expansion and wish to upgrade it to the Collector's Edition after launch, you'll have to redeem the Collector's Edition key by December 31, 2018. 
Also, starting today, anyone interested in playing the next expansion can digitally pre-purchase Battle for Azeroth on the Blizzard store and receive the current Legion expansion for free. This package also includes an upgrade to level 110, to allow players, both old and new, to start off the game. Related texts