Bangladesh 
It’s not often that we have the opportunity to talk about Bangladesh and that’s surprising. If you read this and your company has a presence in Bangladesh, you will have cars over there. And you will have many more in the future. Now, why is that? Some facts 
Let’s start with some basic facts about Bangladesh. The country has a population of over 160 million people, is ideally located in between India and Myanmar, with direct access to the Bay of Bengal (from which Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore become easily accessible) and all the way up North, almost direct access to China. Nominal GDP per head is below USD 2,000. The inhabitants are mainly Muslim and they speak Bengali. The country is very young (independence in 1972), is governed by a secular parliamentary democracy that has been struggling to install and maintain peace and calm in the country. 
Bangladesh is part of the N-11 group – emerging economies that have the potential of becoming on of the world’s main economies. And it’s not surprising: the median age is below 26, education is improving, the country is flat, extremely fertile and there’s gas – a lot of it. As a result, Bangladesh’s economy is diverse: service industry first (some of the major South-Asian banks are based in Dhaka), agriculture next, followed by energy, textile and other industries. So, all good, is it? 
Not really. Bangladesh has not yet reached a phase of political stability and still has to solve some issues with Myanmar and Pakistan, who should by its key partners. Corruption is part of daily life and makes up almost 4% of the country’s GDP, theft of cars and car parts are common and then there are the traffic jams… 
The capital, Dhaka, centre of the country’s economy, has the world’s highest population density with almost 44,000 people per square kilometre; they all go to work in the morning and back home in the evening, which leads to Dhaka’s standard of 1 hour for 500 metres… The percentage of roads is too low (around 6% versus a need of about 25%) with no significant improvements in sight, another good example of the Asian Infrastructure Gap. Mobility mix in Dhaka 
In the capital’s overcrowded roads, many types of transport modes have to function toghether Slow transport: Rickshaws: cheap, flexible, often faster than cars but socially linked to the low-income classes. Electric rickshaws are becoming popular. Bicycles: mountain bikes are becoming popular with young people (students, young employees) People transport: Bus: there are not enough busses, they’re not safe, there are no dedicated bus lanes, no reliable schedules, many people don’t pay to get on the bus; consequently, the bus has become another means of transport for poor people Train and subway: popular for longer trips, but not sufficiently developed Shuttle buses: the middle-class way to get around. Small, crowded buses, designed to transport up to 14 people but carrying many more in reality Taxis: popular but not price-regulated, taxis are used by the middle class willing to negotiate the fee at the end of the ride Cars: close to 90% of all annual registrations in Bangladesh are imported, second hand Japanese cars – almost all Toyota. Cars transport less than 4% of the Dhaka population but occupy up to 70% of the roads. Second hand car business 
A scenario where the need for cars is growing every year, but the availability remains limited, determines vehicle selection for private people, but also for corporates. As the residual values (in combination with inflation) are very strong, people and corporates tend to buy cars rather than lease them. Operational leasing is therefore almost non-existing, but finance leases (via equipment lease suppliers or banks) are becoming more popular. 
In practice, most corporates will prefer to buy new, but also Japanese import second-hand Toyotas or Mazdas and will often include a buy-back option for the employee at a fixed percentage of the investment (15% to 25%). Buying other brands might be cheaper (especially the Chinese Geelys or FAWs), but there will be a risk to find service points or parts. What to do if you have cars in Bangladesh? Deal with reality and be solution oriented. As Dhaka is perceived as a less safe city, it’s not uncommon for corporates to extend car eligibility to people who would usually not receive a company vehicle (e.g. office staff). Diversify your car selection: Dhaka has a good coverage of car dealers of all brands. Look at Chinese or Korean alternatives if you’re not sure about buying second hand cars. In the countryside however, go for a Japanese car – literally everyone can repair a Toyota. Have the expense notes checked thoroughly and educate employees to recognise fraud. Authored by: Yves Helven 