BeadTV April 6, 2018 BeadTV No Comments News/Gist BBNaija: Teddy A And BamBam Talk About What’s Next For Their Relationship 
Evicted Big Brother housemates, Bambam and Teddy A were not just contestants in the Big Brother Naija house, they were more than that. 
Popularly referred to as Bamteddy, they were also one of viewers’ favourite couple. The duo have been out and about, going on media tours and all since their arrival in the country. 
In a recent interview with Pulse, they spoke about the future of their relationship – according to them, they are more focused on taking advantage of the platform and vibe they are currently receiving. 
Read excerpts from their interview below: 
Teddy A: It’s about making money right now. We have been gone for three months. 
Bambam: These people would not look at our faces if we are drinking garri. 
Teddy A: Do you know how much bills are piling up right now? Yea, everything that happened in the house was beautiful, but you people would have to watch things grow. 
Don’t be under any pressure to see what would materialize. Because if anything [bad] should happen between us, you people would be the ones to carry it and say ‘Ah…’ 
Bambam: – [mimicking an interviewer] So Bamteddy, what happened to your relationship? So Bam you’re a gold digger, you prefer money to love? 
Teddy A: – So guys, the koko of all these things is wanting to put our feet solidly on the ground. We want to stay relevant. 
We want to have enough money that my mother would say ‘Teddy, send two million,’ and I send it without any questions being asked. 
We want to focus on our careers solely, see where things go from there. You guys should not worry. Are you people running away? 
Bambam: We need to take advantage of this vibe and build a solid foundation, so we don’t easily fade out of your faces. That’s what is important. 
Teddy A, who was in a relationship before he went into the Big Brother house, also talked about having a conversation with his girlfriend since he got back. 
“I already talked about it before I left. So for right now, the conversation we have had, that’s between us solely. I can’t let that out there,” he told Pulse Nigeria. 
culled from Pulse 