ALD Automotive 
In our series of interviews with leasing Industry Leaders in Asia, we had the opportunity to talk with Mr Suvajit Karmakar, CEO and General Manager of ALD India. 
As the leasing industry in India is rather young (early 2000s), many of its leaders have a background in other industries. This is also true for Mr Karmakar, who worked in different sectors such as retail banking before joining ALD in 2005 as the Head of Sales and Marketing. 
“ALD India was a different company in 2005,” says Mr Karmakar. “The leasing industry was underdeveloped in India, but the Headquarters understood the potential and knew that consistent client education and patience were key to grow the business.” Growth happened and in 2013, Mr Karmakar took up the role of General Manager and CEO of the company, destined to develop the company further into one of the successful leasing suppliers in India. Commercial argumentation 
“Approaching a potential client in India is, from a rationale point of view, more difficult than it is in Europe or the US. Many of the clients see leasing as a luxury product – something for rich companies. We focus on 3 types of arguments: Accounting: our account managers often need to educate the client on the benefits of deductibility and other tax advantages. Leasing as a service has a positive impact on the cashflow of clients and lease versus buy studies are a big part of what our commercial teams do. All-inclusive services: India is a big and often complex country. The supply chain, such as the service and maintenance centres, is very diverse and, for non-professional fleet managers, difficult to control, both in terms of quality and invoicing. In a leasing environment however, much of that admin and uncertainty is removed and dealt with by our operations. Global decision making: we obviously explore the global ALD portfolio and scan India for opportunities to include local fleets into global agreements. In general, this pleases the regional or global Fleet Manager, creating more consolidation and more volume with the same supplier.” 2017 Tax Changes 
The change of Tax Regulations has impacted the leasing industry heavily in 2017. Apart from the difficult transition, due to a sudden review of the GST Cess rates applicable on cars based on their size, fuel and engine capacity in September, less than 3 months after their introduction, almost all clients have seen their TCO go up due to the new taxations on their existing fleet. “We have lobbied the government as much as possible, with support of the entire industry as well as the support of our clients,” says Mr Karmakar, “but still, we haven’t fully relieved leasing from the downsides of the new tax regulations. ALD has had to implement various strategic and commercial actions to leverage the impact on our clients: contract extensions, sharing of discounts with the client, recovering of depreciations both during the contracts and at the end of the contracts… In order to reduce the impact of the taxation on the resell of vehicles at the end of the contract, ALD is now also offering leasing on vehicles that would otherwise be sold off to the second hand market.” Mobility 
Mr Karmakar describes the potential of mobility in India as follows: “On the short term, we don’t see anything ground-breaking happening in India. There have been some initiatives in electric vehicles and some of the ride-hailing apps have become successful with the tech embracing young people. We foresee bigger changes to happen in the period 2020 to 2022, mainly aimed at increasing mobility of the masses and reducing pollution. There are two important areas where ALD can help corporate mobility. Firstly, the home-office transits with dedicated services to ensure an efficient and safe journey for the employees. We also think that electric vehicles will play a big role in this segment. Secondly, there’s a massive amount of informal car sharing happening in India; ALD is investing a lot in tools that help the Fleet Manager to formalise this.” Conclusion 
“ALD is positive about the further development of the Indian market. Don’t forget: due to the presence of 3 major international lease players, the Indian market is by far the most mature in the region and we’re ahead of other countries in terms of products and services. India has been an important market for ALD and we will continue to deliver results and premium services for our clients.” Authored by: Yves Helven 