sextoys is not only sextoys Home Blog sextoys is not only sextoys Blog sextoys is not only sextoys Posted On April 4, 2018 at 11:22 pm by sluttytoys / No Comments 
sextoys is not only sextoys. While i was sitting here working on the computer a thought came through my mind. We all know that sex is good for our health and for pleasure 🙂 But a lot of sextoys is actually helping a lot of people out there getting a better health. Take for example the love balls, it helps out a woman who have given birth and wants to prevent peeing when she coughs or sneeze. Because the bladder may become weak after birth. So back to the love balls, they help train the pelvic floor which means a stronger bladder and of course better sex at the same time win win 🙂 
The prostata vibrator is another great toy it not only get the man excited but prostate massage prevent prostata cancer. As for the penis rings and the penis enlargers they do a great job preventing erectile dysfunction, and premature ejaculation. And are recommended for treatment of those. 
I can definitely recommend getting a sextoy. Not only for fun purposes also for the better of your health. Take care and have a great day. 
-Lulu- Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Comment Rated 5.00 out of 5 € 53.70 Rated 3.50 out of 5 € 9.95 Azerisexnet (1) About us 
We offer free worldwide shipping. Packages are shipped with GLS and Postnord. Our goal is to help our customers have the best sex of their life. We strive to get the most delicious, various and unusual sextoys for our customers. We are committed to your full satisfaction and strive to provide our customers with a easy and carefree shopping experience. Our webshop is SSL secure which means that it is your security as a customer. An SSL certificate is a way to assure visitors that our webshop is a safe place to shop. SSL stands for Secure Sockets Layer, SSL is an encryption protocol that ensures that only sender and recipient can read the information sent between them. 
So if you have any questions or special requests don’t hesitate to contact us at webshop@sluttytoys.com 
Didn’t find what you’ve been looking? contact us and we will be happy to help you out. 
Happy Shopping! Our customers privacy is important. Your packages will be delivered 100% discreet. Return policy: The following terms have to be met. The product must be unused, and must be returned in original condition and packaging. Products that are not heat sealed in the box are non refundable and non exchangeable. Items supplied in sealed packaging that have been opened are non refundable and non exchangeable. Unless the product is broken when you open it. However Do always test products with batteries before use. If you dont test it before you use it, there will be no refund. The product must be received back within 14 days from the day you received your order. Any damaged products need to be reported within 48 hours of being delivered. We do not cover any postage charges to return items back to us under any circumstances. There will always be 24 month warrenty. If your complaint is justified, it means that you can either get the item exchanged, or the money back, depending on the specific situation.If you return a product, remember to attach the invoice. If you live in a country where a customs duty is required, it is up to you to pay for it. Payment: You can pay with paypal or stripe. sluttytoys.com © copyright 2018 All rights reserved Snakagervej 27, 4200 Slagelse. Denmark. phone: +4560923238 Mail: webshop@sluttytoys.com Website created by lulu - WordPress Theme : AccessPress Store by AccessPress Themes 