Indhold fra partner Hvad er dette? 
A s a global Life Science company, with more than 150 years of experience and competencies in healthcare, Bayer has a great responsibility to contribute to the advancement of health across the globe. af Bayer 
7 April 2018 marks the annual World Health Day. This year's theme is Universal Health Coverage for everyone, everywhere. 
Science For A Better Life It is time for the annual World Health Day and thus a time to reflect on the future of health innovation and development. This year, the World Health Organization has brought universal health coverage on the agenda, under the hashtag #HealthForAll. 
As the only global company conducting research on human, animal and plant health simultaneously, Bayer has a great innovative culture going across borders and areas of expertise. Consequently, with its qualified innovative diagnostics technologies and high-tech platforms, Bayer is known for its veterinary medicines and pharmaceutical products worldwide. In this regard, sustainability is a viable part of our corporate strategy and an integrated part of our day-to-day procedures. 
In line with our slogan, “Science for a Better Life”, Bayer is committed to the healthcare and well-being of people, both in economic, ecological and social matters. 
Food and Health for Everyone Furthermore, Bayer is dedicated to the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) - part of the “Agenda 2030” adopted by the United Nations in 2015. Our innovations, products, and services enable us to help overcome the global challenges emphasized in the SDGs, such as poverty, hunger, inequality and climate change. 
At Bayer, high-quality food for all is a viable part of our sustainable development program. This is closely linked to the second UN Sustainable Development Goal, namely to end hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture. Providing nutrition and food for a growing world population is a global challenge that requires attentive cultivation of land with respect to both environment and resources. 
The purpose of the third SDG is to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all age – naturally, this is a core principle at Bayer. In close corporation with WHO, we support programs all over the world that enable access to modern pharmaceuticals and contraceptives. 
Accordingly, Bayer invests significantly in research and development of new pharmaceuticals and therapies for the good of people of all nationalities and incomes, which is crucial for universal health coverage to become a reality. 
You can read more about the World Health Day 2018 at: