Yemeni ballistic missile hits Saudi military base in Najran: Report Share This Tags 
Araweelo News Network This undated photo, provided by the media bureau of Yemen’s Operations Command, shows a Yemeni missile shortly after launch. 
Sana’a(ANNN)-Yemeni army forces, backed by allied fighters from Popular Committees, have fired a domestically-manufactured ballistic missile at a military base in Saudi Arabia’s southern border region of Najran in retaliation for the Saudi regime’s military campaign against the crisis-hit country, Yemeni media report. 
Yemen’s official Saba news agency, citing an unnamed military official, reported that the Quwat al- Wageb military camp had been targeted with short-range Badr-1 missile on Friday night, adding that the projectile had hit the designated target with great precision. 
The official added that the missile inflicted damage on the camp, killing and wounding an unspecified number of Saudi troopers. 
However, the official Saudi Press Agency, citing a military official, claimed that the Saudi air defense forces had intercepted and destroyed the Yemeni missile over the skies of the region. 
The development came two days after Yemeni forces fired a ballistic missile at Aramco storage tanks in Saudi Arabia’s southwestern Jizan region. Shortly after the announcement, the kingdom’s state-run al-Ekhbariya television network claimed that the missile was downed by the Saudi air defenses over the skies above the region. 


On Monday, the Yemeni army said that it had hit al-Jarbah Base in Dhahran district in Saudi Arabia’s southwestern border region of Asir with short-range Badr-1 missile, leaving losses in the “enemy” ranks and its military equipment. 
The Yemeni Ministry of Human Rights announced in a statement on March 25 that the Saudi-led war had left 600,000 civilians dead and injured during the past three years. 
The United Nations says a record 22.2 million Yemenis are in need of food aid, including 8.4 million threatened by severe hunger. 
The Saudi aggression was launched in March 2015 in support of Yemen’s former Riyadh-friendly government and against the country’s Houthi Ansarullah movement, which has been running state affairs in the absence of an effective administration. 
The offensive has, however, achieved neither of its goals despite the spending of billions of petrodollars and the enlisting of Saudi Arabia’s regional and Western allies. 
source: presstv.com 