healthysi 1 Comment cracked feet , cracked feet remedy , cracked heels remedy , dry feet , home remedies for cracked feet , rough feet , what causes cracked heels Cracked heels 
Torn feet, cracked heels are also quite strange, besides pain. Those who do hard things, they have to face this problem a lot. These problems are usually in the cold weather, but many women and men also have this problem during the summer season. Usually this problem is more than 24 years old, but if it is seen then this problem has nothing to do with the age. 
cracked heels has become a painful disease. There is a symptom of these problems such as redness, itching, inflammation, peeling skin and the skin is curved and thin. Before the cracks become deep and blood starts bleeding or pain. 
The main reasons for bridges Dry air, lack of moisture in the skin, do not take care of feet properly, irregular catering, growing age, standing in a tough place for a long time and wearing the wrong type shoes or socks. Due to some medical conditions such as eczema, psoriasis , corns and calluses, diabetes and thyroid disease, the edges can burst. Home remedies for cracked heels 
1. Take lightly hot water and put some lemon drops in it. Dip your feet in for 5-6 minutes and remove the feet and dry them. Apply cream or mosquito preparations before sleeping. 
2. Take a bucket of light warm water and put light shampoo in it and immerse your feet for some time. After that scrub the edges with the pumice stone and clean it. When the dead skin is clean then your feet will look soft and clean. After this, do not forget to apply oil on the heels. 
3. In addition to this, you can take rocks and rubbing your edible edges even when you are eating it everyday. After this, apply light oil or mosquito netting on your feet. 
4. Honey also has a big contribution in fixing the leg. Put two-three drops of honey in light hot water and add a few drops of lemon. After that, immerse your feet in that hot water for 8-10 minutes. After this wash the feet with clean water and add olive oil or almond oil to it. 
5. Immerse your feet in light water and baking soda water. Baking soda will remove dirt and dead cells from the feet. Apart from this, it is also a natural ingredient that will save you from foot infection. Try this method two or three times a week, so that you can get clean, soft and white legs. 
6.Whenever you stay in the house, always wearing shoes or sandals on foot. Never stay barefoot. 