Dist: 56,1 km Start: 07:30 End: 17:50 
I couldn’t say this morning’s surf was as low as I was expecting it…but it still looked doable an hour before low tide. But as it goes, when you are sitting inside about ten breaking lines, the last ones are never in the right timing and appear HUGE when you are there…or I was drifted off my easier looking channel. At least five or six monster waves in the last line had to break just in front of me – I shouted at them to do so, and only one did not listen and pinned me to my back deck. Good I am so flexible…the other ones trashed their foam more or less heavy into my face, but at some point I saw flat water behind the last foam and I rushed out into freedom…without any capsize…thank goodness. 
When I checked the bar report of Umpqua River this morning, it was RED, but when I was there, it must have been green as t was as flat as it could be. Two Coastguard boats were out there, doing some practice. The smaller one came up to me to ask friendly for my whereabouts. No ticket today, guys, all is fine here! They were amazed to hear my story, and I passed a card over. Good to know they are there, just in case! 
But even when the wind breezed up to quite strong 15-20 knots following from North, the sea state stayed low. Just some wind waves were breaking here and there, and I enjoyed surfing a bit with a moderate heavy loaded boat. I also had some distance of 55 km to cover to reach my destination for tonight, Sunset Bay. Across Coos Bay River mouth, a fishing boat felt like checking on my well being, not believing what I was doing…all good, guys! I didn’t want to follow them into the river…! 
I had to turn in a wide berth around Gregory Point, a long jutting out reef spit, into magnificent Sunset Bay. The rock and reef formations around the spit are really stunning! John Schlesinger, a nice fellow paddler who has covered most of the West Coast, was waiting there to greet me. Josh Aranow, my co-paddler for the next two weeks, also made it down to meet me. We’ll see how it goes in the next two easy-weather days…