Nana Plaza After Midnight – VLOG 78 by admin on Apr 08, 2018 Nana Plaza After Midnight – VLOG 78 Rate this post 
Bangkok Nightlife 2016 – VLOG 78 – Nana Plaza After Midnight 
CAMERA USED IN THIS VIDEO: http://amzn.to/2oT75nF NEWER CAMERA I USE FOR 2017: http://amzn.to/2oT5fmJ 
A VLOG from June 2016 taken at Nana Plaza and the surrounding street Soi 4 late after midnight. This video is the second part from the night after VLOG 77. 
This video features the so called Nana Plaza ‚Ladyboy walk of death‘ and also some ladyboy trouble in front of the Soi 4 Nana McDonald’s. 
The parts of this video are: 
0:00 Nana Plaza 8:08 Ladyboy Walk of Deat.h 10:00 Soi 4 Nana late at night 11:19 Ladyboy freelancer trouble 13:13 Taxi rejecting passengers 
Nana Plaza 
On this night it was quite late but the bars were still doing an ok trade with a mixture of regular customers and tourists around. 
The Ladyboy Walk of D.eath 
This corner on the 1st floor of Nana Plaza can be hard to get through the ladyboys. They try to coax you into their bars especially later at night. 
If you are intoxicated then can be very hard to get through as our 2 friends found out in this video 🙂 
Ladyboy trouble in front of McDonald’s 
I thought it was going to kick off for a minute with a couple of freelancer ladyboys. You have to remember that some are just like men in that they love a good late night scrap before heading home! 
Taxis 
If you ever had a problem in lower Sukhumvit getting a taxi, you are not alone in that the locals have similar problems too. 
No need to react about it, just get one of the many following taxis and one will take you for a metered rate. 
The pole dancer outro to this video was shot at the ‚crazy horse circus bar‘ on Bangla Road in Patong, Thailand. 
You can now support this channel via Paypal @ bangkok112mail@gmail.com (or click on the link on the channel banner page). 
New post on the website: 
Visit www.bangkok112.com for more general info from these videos. 
Thanks for watching and subscribe for more videos. 
Music: 
Don’t hate me – Jingle Punks From the YouTube Audio Library Teilen mit: 