The Symptoms of an ill Mind – Sadhguru talks in a Darshan at Isha Yoga Center, 2014 by admin on Apr 08, 2018 
Sadhguru looks at how an ill mind can create a poisonous chemical soup within the body. He explains how modern society sees disease as a normal fact of life, which is a serious mistake. But a human being is capable of creating a woderful „soup“ and going through life blissfully. 
Sadhguru Talks @ Darshan, Isha Yoga Center, Coimbatore, Mar 2014 
Full Transcript: 
Questioner: Sadhguru, Namaskaram. You mentioned in your previous discourses that thirty percent of the illnesses are body while the rest are mind-created. I just want to know in case you do get an illness, how do you know that it’s mind-created or it’s of the body? And in case it’s psychosomatic in nature, what would be the emotional and the thought pattern that’s behind it? How would you find that out and correct it if possible? Thank you. 
Sadhguru: You’re sounding like a disciple of Freud (Laughter). Only recently, in the last few years, there has been certain letters that Sigmund Freud wrote to certain people – it’s all come into public domain now. It’s unbelievable – a man who is seen as the father of modern psychoanalysis, the one… People have even credit him… credited him with the title, “He invented human mind” (Laughs). You should see the hollowness of the man – unbelievable! 
So don’t go like this – just a simple thing. Suppose right now your right hand gets up – do it. Let your right hand get up – not like that. And it acts funny, simply (Gestures). Do it, do it. No, that’s not funny. Do something more funny. And it beats you up (Laughter). Do you have an ailment or no? Suppose your right hand gets up and does funny things and smashes you, pokes your eyes (Gestures) (Laughter), do you have an ailment or no? Yes, isn’t it? For sure you have. That’s exactly what your mind is doing, isn’t it? It gets up, pops around, hurts you, pokes you, makes you cry, makes you (Laughs) suffer – do you have an ailment or no? Too many people are with you (Laughter) so you can form an army of sick people. When there’s an army in front of you, sick or otherwise, you don’t argue with them (Laughs). What’s the point? Especially if it’s a sick army, what is the point arguing with them? Just bow down to them and keep going. 
That’s what morse… most enlightened beings have done. They looked… They closed their eyes and things happened, then they looked… (Gestures) (Laughs). Some fools stand up to speak and it goes on endlessly. If… If your hand started pocking at you, hitting you, beating you up, definitely you are sick, isn’t it? Yes. So if your thoughts and emotions are poking you, str… strangling you and torturing you every day, aren’t you sick I’m asking? Hmm? By your own definition I’m going (Laughs). 
So because this sickness is on, it will manifest in so many ways in the physical body. There is no question anymore. Every thought, every reverberation on the level of the mind, depending upon the type of reverberation you create, the whole chemistry is going through a change. It’s all been measured. Right now you sit here and think about tigers, you have one kind of chemistry – chemical changes happen. You think about flowers, another kind of chemical change happens. All this has been measured. So for every thought, if the whole chemistry is going through thing – if your mind is in this state, you know what kind of soup you’re making? You’re a lousy soup (Laughs). Not just lousy, poisonous… 
Read more at: http://isha.sadhguru.org/blog/video/the-symptoms-of-an-ill-mind/ 