17,000 Km, 7 Nations And seven Weeks Later, Hyderabad Girls Bikers Return Residence 17,000 Km, 7 Nations And seven Weeks Later, Hyderabad Girls Bikers Return Residence April 9, 2018 Trending No Comments Highway to Mekong: four girls bikers from Hyderabad rode 17,000 km via 7 international locations in 7 weeks Hyderabad: 4 girls bikers, seven nations in seven weeks – that was the purpose with which Shilpa Balakrishnan, Piya Bahadur, Shanti Susan and Jai Bharathi started their 17,000 kilometre street journey from Hyderabad on February 11. At the moment, they efficiently accomplished the journey which that they had known as ‘Roadtrip to Mekong’.
Their 16,992 km journey, which started in Hyderabad, took them via fifteen states in India and 6 Southeast Asian international locations. Their journey, which was backed by Telangana Tourism, noticed them experience via India, Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam, and Bangladesh. In addition they traveled on the newly-constructed India-Myanmar-Thailand freeway. 
With an goal to advertise tourism and street journeys in India, the 4 riders visited 19 UNESCO World Heritage websites throughout the seven international locations. “The expedition additionally promoted Telangana’s tradition and highlighted the respect and assist given to girls,” Minister for Tourism A. Chandulal instructed information company ANI. 
The 4 girls, who rode Bajaj Dominar bikes, mentioned that they too needed to advertise girls empowerment, whereas making the nation pleased with their achievement. The primary 13 days noticed the riders cowl fifteen states in India, after which they began the Southeast Asia leg of their journey by crossing into Myanmar from Manipur. The 4 girls bikers from Talangana confirmed tradition from their state in addition to promoted Unimaginable India 
After efficiently finishing the expedition, Shanti Susan, one of many 4 riders mentioned, “The journey was a tremendous expertise. It was a beautiful alternative to reinvent myself. Now I’ve began issues very in another way, and I’m far more assured than i ever was earlier than…I can take up any problem, obtain something I’m decided to.” Ms Susan works with the Telangana Police. 
Congratulating the riders on their success, D. Manohar, the Managing Director of Telangana Tourism, in an interview to information company ANI mentioned, “I’m very completely satisfied for them. We in Telangana assist such fantastic concepts. Throughout their journey, the riders met folks from varied sections of society, and all walks of life, and highlighted the tradition and locations of Telangana and promoted Unimaginable India.””The rider’s group was accompanied by a four-member manufacturing crew to doc your entire expedition. Telangana tourism additionally supplied a mini sofa with two drivers who additionally promoted Telangana tourism,” Mr Manohar mentioned. 
(With inputs from ANI) 