Releasing This Week: April 9-15 Whether it be cute platformers, big monsters, or armoured warfare, there's a lot coming. Text: Sam Bishop   13 
April 10 - Super Daryl Deluxe is a mixture of RPG-esque elements, brawler combat, and a rather striking visual style that's rather bizarre and comic at the same time. With over 15 hours of story to play through, and plenty of skills, hidden areas, and extras to see, this might be one for players who want something off the beaten track. 
Owlboy is a game a lot of gamers already know and love, but now PS4 and Xbox One players will be able to get in on the fun this week, so they can see the charming pixelated adventure game for themselves. Use your newfound friends to complete the many dungeons and boss battles, and take in the stunning environments around you, because they're definitely worth a look. 
Masters of Anima is all about summoning guardians in strategic fights, and you can see exactly what this means from April 10. You control large armies in this fantasy game, where you take on the evil Zahr and explore the world as you do so. Controlling magic is just one facet of Masters of Anima, as you'll need to save yourself and your fiancée Ana too. 
We already knew we had a taste for taking down huge monsters from Shadow of the Colossus' remaster, and now Extinction is bringing us even more goliaths to slay. This is all about big attacks, full control over your combat, and strategy, as you work out how to find the weaknesses in armour so you can take down the beasts. 
April 11 - While not exactly a game, this week Arma 3 is getting a Tanks DLC which introduces - you guessed it - tanks. Three of them, to be precise. The T-140 Angara; AWC Nyx; and Rhino MGS are sure to add some firepower to your warfare, as well as a Altis Requiem mini-campaign, new showcase, and a platform update too, so there's plenty to see this Wednesday. 
Hellblade: Senua's Sacrifice has already been released on PC and PS4 as of last year, but we had to include the Xbox One release date on this list because it impressed us that much in its first outing. The sensitive portrayal of mental health and Senua's suffering, alongside a gripping story, means that this is a must-have for Xbox players, especially considering all the praise its received thus far. 
On April 11 Maelstrom will be getting released into Early Access, seeing you take to the seas in intense naval battles filled with tons of ships, and obviously booty to be gathered. Early Access will be a chance for the devs to receive feedback and balance the game too, so it's a work in motion as it were. Did we mention there were sea monsters too? 
Robocraft Infinity is making its way to Xbox One this week, allowing you to make robots and then send them out into battle, whether that be driving or flying. This version features new controls, physics, achievements, and even a new progression system too, so if you're a creative soul looking to make some cool robots, or just like the thrill of battling, then this might be one to check out if you're on Microsoft's console. 
April 13 - On April 13 Darkest Dungeon will make its way to the Nintendo Switch's physical catalogue in the form of the Ancestral Edition, which not only includes the excellent game that has already received a ton of praise, but also The Crimson Court and The Shieldbreaker DLCs, both of which add plenty of content to the game. Whether you've yet to play it or want a copy for your shelf, this may be worth checking out. You must be logged in to comment. If you are not yet a member - join now ! ×