Sadhguru at Kantisarovar: Nada Brahma Chant by admin on Apr 09, 2018 
Sadhguru speaks about his experience at Kanti Sarovar, the glacial lake a few kilometers beyond Kedarnath, where Shiva, the first yogi or Adiyogi, transmitted the yogic sciences to the Saptarishis, over 15,000 years ago. He chants the Nada Brahma chant, and explains how this chant resounded across the lake in his presence. He speaks about the significance of this chant, and also explains the meaning. 
Nada Brahma Vishwaswaroopa Nada Hi Karma Nada Hi Dharma Nada Hi Bandhana Nada Hi Mukti Nada Hi Shankara Nada Hi Shakti Nadam Nadam Sarvam Nadam Nadam Nadam Nadam Nadam 
Translation: Sound is Brahman, the manifestation of the universe, sound manifests itself in the form of all life, sound is bondage, sound is the means for liberation, sound is that which binds, sound is that which liberates, sound is the bestower of all, sound is the power behind everything, sound is everything. 
Transcript: http://isha.sadhguru.org/blog/video/sadhguru-at-kantisarovar-nada-brahma-chant/ 
So once I went – those days, today I just came back from Kailash, from Kailash I went to Australia and back – so today when I travelled there’s a whole Jing-bang going with me, okay too much organization. We got all kinds of boots, we got clothes, we got this thing and the gloves and the works and cars and the works. You can’t imagine, too much organization. At that time I just went by myself, by local bus. Generally I sat on top of the bus and went because I didn’t want to miss the mountains. And these are crazy buses. They started four, four-thirty in the morning from Haridwar and go straight to either Gourikund or to Badrinath – they have to get there, so they won’t don’t stop anywhere. These buses used to be called as Bhook Hartal buses, that means hunger strike buses because they won’t stop anywhere for food. The driver opens up his rolled up chapatti and starts eating as he’s driving. 
So you are sitting there wondering where is the lunch, where is the lunch, no lunch. So they are called Bhook Hartal. So I went and sat on top of the bus because I don’t want to miss even a bit of the mountain. And electric wires will come. He’ll just shout ‘bijlee’ which says ‘just lie down’ (Laughs) and again get up. So I went there without any kind of things. That was not the first time I went. I’ve been…I think about twenty-six years I went continuously, every year. And just my jeans and my T shirt and I had have my canvas jacket which I used to ride in South India. It’s very good for the rain but suddenly I realized when you go to the cold, the damn canvas jacket gets colder than the atmosphere. (Laughs) 
So I just went up and I went to Kanthi Sarovar. It was around three thirty in the afternoon; I just sat there and I didn’t know what hit me. I just sat there with my eyes open. It’s an incredible glacier lake. It’s a…as nature it’s phenomenally beautiful. My eyes are open my mouth was shut but I could hear my voice singing loudly around me, very loudly like it’s on a big microphone and I’m just looking. It’s my voice clearly singing this chant. For the first time I’m hearing it but it’s in my voice, but my mouth is clearly shut. So I sat there listening to this and that’s what we chanted just now. What it means is sound, nad means sound – sound is not an appropriate translation but in…in English language there is no appropriate word for nad. Nad is more than sound. Probably because there is no appropriate translations in English language similar things have happened. I think – are there any bible readers? Anybody? Nobody? Oh. I think the…I’ve not read but I’ve only heard from people that it seems the first part of the bible is about ‘first there was a word and the word was with God and the word is God’ something like this. Is that right? Somebody knows? Something like that. 
Read Full Transcript: http://isha.sadhguru.org/blog/video/sadhguru-at-kantisarovar-nada-brahma-chant/ 