Quake Champions får tilføjet ny kæmper og map i denne måned To mindre og to større eSports turneringer i år. Af 0 
id Software og Bethesda er i dag endelig på banen med nyt fra Quake Champions. I denne måned bliver Strogg tilføjet som seneste “champion” og banen Awoken vil også debutere. 
Strogg vender tilbage fra Quake 2 og Quake 4. Hans “sidekick” Peeker vil du også kunne tage kontrol over for første gang. Awoken er navnet på det kommende map. 
Bethesda og id Software kan i dag også fortælle lidt mere om deres eSports 2018 schedule for Quake Champions. Der vil blive afholdt to mindre og to større turneringer. I næste måned er der action under Dreamhack Tours ($50.000 i priser). Den største turnering vil være QuakeCon Open i august måned. Derefter følger en mindre PGL turnering og årets sluttes af med Quake Champions Invitational under Dreamhack Winter. 
id Software har leveret en ny trailer, som du kan se herover. 
This weekend during the Bethesda Gameplay Day at PAX East, the team behind Quake Champions revealed fresh details in the coming April update, including the return of one of the Quake franchise’s fiercest warriors – Strogg – as a new Champion; a new Cthala-themed map; and the calendar of Quake esports events for 2018. It was a busy weekend for everyone, so read on to get the latest on Quake Champions. 
New Content Coming in April 
Later this month, Quake Champions’ April update will bring a host of new content and features, as well as additional gameplay improvements and refinements. Key new content announced at PAX East include: 
New Champion – Strogg : Half military-grade metal, half decaying flesh, and 100% ready to rage, the primary enemy from both Quake II and Quake 4 is back as Strogg fights to be freed from the Dreamlands and reestablish contact with his ruthless warlord Makron. Players will also be able to take control of Strogg’s sidekick Peeker, an airborne AI drone that shoots explosives. Enemy kills are turned into a nutritional paste called Stroylent that provides 25HP, but players need to act fast – other Stroggs can steal your nourishment. 
New Map – Awoken : Players will find themselves navigating a misty labyrinth of tropical ruins in this month’s newest map, Awoken. The vine-entrenched arena will be playable in Deathmatch, Team Deathmatch, Duel, 2v2, and Instagib. Stay woke to stay alive in this map, Champions. 
2018 esports Schedule Revealed 
This year, Quake Champions will host two major and two minor tournaments for professional competitors, as well as additional online events. The first tournament will be at Dreamhack Tours in May with a prize pool of $50,000. For the first time in Quake history, there will be no prior qualifiers – all players at the event can register to compete for the title. Registration is now open for Dreamhack Tours here: https://tours.dreamhack.com/quake-champions-debarque-a-tours/ 
Additional events in 2018 include a major event, the QuakeCon Open at QuakeCon 2018 in August; a minor event at PGL in October; and a final major event, the Quake Champions Invitational, to be held at Dreamhack Winter in December. In addition, the Collegiate Star League will begin competition in Quake Champions in June, and additional online tournaments will occur weekly and monthly with varying prize pools via the ESL Go4 League, through BattleFy, and through the Quake Champions Open League. TAGS