A Marvel Land is coming to Disneyland in 2020 — here’s everything we know Disney Parks announced Marvel-themed areas will come to three of its new parks. California's Disneyland will add new Avengers and Spider-Man experiences to the park in 2020. They will replace Pixar's "A Bug's Land." Disneyland Paris will get a new ride that will let fans join Iron Man on an adventure. An attraction in Hong Kong Disneyland will allow guests to tag along with Ant-Man and the Wasp on a journey. 
It's not just "Star Wars" that will be invading Disney parks. 
Disney Parks announced Tuesday that a Marvel-themed land will be coming to Disneyland in 2020. 
The superhero-themed area will include experiences for the Avengers and Spider-Man. They'll be in addition to the "Guardians of the Galaxy — Mission: Breakout!" ride that took over the park's Tower of Terror ride in 2017. (You can read our review of it here.) 
The Avengers attractions will take over "A Bug's Land," which is based on Pixar's "A Bug's Life" movie. That land will close in late summer 2018. 
Here's the teaser poster Disney Parks' released for the new area: 
California's Disneyland isn't the only park to be getting the Avengers treatment. There will also be new Marvel-themed areas coming to Disneyland Paris and Hong Kong Disneyland. 
Disneyland Paris will have a new ride that will allow guests to team up with Iron Man and the Avengers on an adventure. That is also expected to open in 2020. Additionally, the park will get a new live-action show. In Hong Kong Disneyland, fans will be able to team up with Ant-Man and the Wasp on a new ride. It will join the park's previous Iron Man Experience, which opened in 2017. 
You can watch a preview for the new themed Marvel lands below: 
Join the conversation about this story » 
NOW WATCH: Why 555 is always used for phone numbers on TV and in movies Business ‘Like throwing gasoline onto a fire’: Trump is poised to shake up his legal team as he goes on the offensive against Mueller President Donald Trump is gearing up for a massive shakeup to his legal team as he prepares to take an aggressive approach to the Russia investigation. Trump is reportedly considering firing White House lawyer Ty Cobb, who has advocated for a cooperative approach, and recently hired a controversial former federal prosecutor with a tendency to push conspiracy theories about the FBI. One legal expert called the proceedings a "side show," adding that regardless of whom Trump hires and fires, it "won't impact the facts that are uncovered, nor Mueller's decisions on how to proceed." 
President Donald Trump is gearing up to make massive changes to his legal team. 
Trump is said to be considering firing White House lawyer Ty Cobb. John Dowd, Trump's personal defense attorney, is reportedly thinking about resigning. And on Monday, Trump added a controversial former federal prosecutor with a penchant for pushing conspiracy theories to his team. 
The revelations add to a portrait of the president's escalating frustration over the two things that have hounded him most since he took office: the Russia investigation and the man in charge of it, special counsel Robert Mueller. 
Last week yielded a slew of bombshell developments that indicate the Russia investigation is inching closer to the White House. 
In particular, The New York Times reported on Saturday that Mueller has sent Trump's legal team a list of questions to answer. The questions will not take the place of an interview, but will rather serve as a starting point from which Mueller can ask follow-ups. 
Mueller's questions for Trump come as his lawyers have been working for months to sidestep or significantly narrow the scope of an interview between Mueller and their client, who has shown a tendency to exaggerate the facts and make misleading statements. 
Shortly after Trump's attorneys received the questions, Dowd sent shockwaves through Washington by publicly calling for the Russia probe to be shut down. He walked his comments back on Monday, saying he and Trump's other lawyers were "blessed" to be communicating with the special counsel and would continue to work with his team. 
While Dowd and Trump's other personal defense lawyer, Jay Sekulow, have taken a more combative public stance, Cobb has largely advocated for a cooperative approach with the special counsel since he first joined as a White House lawyer last year. 
"It looks to me like they have too many conflicting power centers on their defense team, and all will be competing and giving advice that conflicts with one another," said Peter Zeidenberg, a former federal prosecutor who worked on the special counsel investigation into I. Lewis "Scooter" Libby during the 2003 "Plame affair." 
"Ideally, a team settles on a single strategy and then executes that strategy with their whole team pulling as one," he added. "That is the opposite of what is happening here, where you have the confrontational strategy and the cooperation strategy on the same team." 
Jens David Ohlin, a vice dean at Cornell Law School and an expert on criminal law, made a similar observation. 
"There are two camps," he said. "The first group, which includes Ty Cobb, wants the President to stay away from Twitter and stop attacking Mueller, because doing that will only land Trump in more legal and political trouble. The second group wants Trump to fight back hard — to 'let Trump be Trump.'" 
He added: "You can guess which strategy Trump himself prefers." 'Throwing gasoline onto a fire' 
With his impending legal team shakeup, Trump appears to have settled on taking a more aggressive approach toward the Russia investigation. 
A source with direct knowledge of Trump's thinking told Axios' Mike Allen that Cobb is "100 percent secure" in his job. 
But if Trump is in fact weighing firing the White House lawyer, experts said it wouldn't come as a surprise. 
"Cobb is an experienced DC attorney and is very adept at resolving issues to the benefit of his clients," said Jeffrey Cramer, a former federal prosecutor who spent 12 years at the DOJ. "Dowd has been more vocal than Cobb as far as taking pot shots at Mueller and his team … It seemed to be only a matter of time before Trump replaced Ty Cobb." 
Meanwhile, on Monday, The New York Times reported that Trump added Joseph diGenova, a controversial former US attorney and conservative media personality, to his team. 
DiGenova was the lead prosecutor in the Department of Justice's pursuit of Washington, DC mayor Marion Barry on corruption-related charges in the late 1980s. But a decade later, he and his wife, Victoria Toensing, built their reputations peddling unfounded conspiracies about the DOJ, Democrats, and the FBI. 
DiGenova has characterized the Russia investigation as the FBI's attempt to "frame an incoming president with a false Russian conspiracy that never existed, and they knew it, and they plotted to ruin him as a candidate and then destroy him as a president." 
Earlier this year, diGenova accused the FBI of using "false facts" to surveil members of the Trump campaign. 
"Of course there was nothing," diGenova said. "There was never anything. It was done not for legitimate law enforcement reasons, not for national security reasons, but to create a false case against" Trump. 
So far, 19 people have been charged with crimes in the Russia investigation, and five have pleaded guilty, including Trump's former national-security adviser and the Trump campaign's former deputy chairman. 
"Bringing on diGenova will be like throwing gasoline onto a fire," Cramer said. While Mueller seeks to interview Trump in the obstruction case, "bringing in a new attorney who has been slinging arrows about a 'deep state' conspiracy theory within the FBI and insulting Jim Comey and others certainly won't facilitate any cooperative spirit between the White House and Mueller." 
Many of Trump's aides were taken by surprise by Trump's latest hire. According to The Washington Post, Trump did not consult top advisers like chief of staff John Kelly or White House counsel Donald McGahn about bringing on diGenova. Instead, he made the decision after "watching television and calling friends," the report said. 
Either way, Cramer said, hiring diGenova, "who has been mostly known latterly for his incendiary comments on television won't impact the facts that are uncovered, nor Mueller's decisions on how to proceed. It's just a side show." 
Ohlin added one important caveat. 
If "Trump gets more aggressive in attacking Mueller, it raises the likelihood that Trump will move to fire Mueller. That, in turn, will hasten impeachment." 
SEE ALSO: We may now know why Trump and his lawyer made their most brazen calls yet for the Mueller investigation to be shut down 
Join the conversation about this story » 
NOW WATCH: The story behind Russia's smear campaign against Syria's White Helmets Business A Fox News contributor quit the network, calling it a ‘propaganda machine for a destructive and ethically ruinous administration’ Retired United States Army lieutenant colonel and Fox News contributor Ralph Peters severed ties with the cable news network, slamming Fox and the president. "Fox News is assaulting our constitutional order and the rule of law, while fostering corrosive and unjustified paranoia among viewers," the commentator wrote in an email to his colleagues. 
Retired United States Army lieutenant colonel and Fox News contributor Ralph Peters recently severed ties with the network, which he accused on Tuesday of "wittingly harming our system of government for profit." 
In a lengthy email to his colleagues first obtained by BuzzFeed, the foreign-policy hawk argued that the cable news network had been transformed from a "legitimate and much-needed outlet for conservative voices" into a "propaganda machine for a destructive and ethically ruinous administration." 
"Four decades ago, I took an oath as a newly commissioned officer. I swore to 'support and defend the Constitution,' and that oath did not expire when I took off my uniform," Peters wrote. "Today, I feel that Fox News is assaulting our constitutional order and the rule of law, while fostering corrosive and unjustified paranoia among viewers." 
Peters, a former Russia analyst, warned that the network's hosts are advancing Russian President Vladimir Putin's agenda "by making light of Russian penetration of our elections and the Trump campaign." 
But Peters praised some of Fox's anchors and news reporters, who he said have bravely challenged the network's dogma. 
Peters, who was highly critical of President Barack Obama's administration, was suspended from Fox for a short period in 2015 for calling Obama a "total pussy" while on the Fox Business Network. 
Fox News did not respond immediately to a request for comment. Read the full letter below: 
On March 1st, I informed Fox that I would not renew my contract. The purpose of this message to all of you is twofold: 
First, I must thank each of you for the cooperation and support you've shown me over the years. Those working off-camera, the bookers and producers, don't often get the recognition you deserve, but I want you to know that I have always appreciated the challenges you face and the skill with which you master them. 
Second, I feel compelled to explain why I have to leave. Four decades ago, I took an oath as a newly commissioned officer. I swore to "support and defend the Constitution," and that oath did not expire when I took off my uniform. Today, I feel that Fox News is assaulting our constitutional order and the rule of law, while fostering corrosive and unjustified paranoia among viewers. Over my decade with Fox, I long was proud of the association. Now I am ashamed. 
In my view, Fox has degenerated from providing a legitimate and much-needed outlet for conservative voices to a mere propaganda machine for a destructive and ethically ruinous administration. When prime-time hosts–who have never served our country in any capacity–dismiss facts and empirical reality to launch profoundly dishonest assaults on the FBI, the Justice Department, the courts, the intelligence community (in which I served) and, not least, a model public servant and genuine war hero such as Robert Mueller–all the while scaremongering with lurid warnings of "deep-state" machinations– I cannot be part of the same organization, even at a remove. To me, Fox News is now wittingly harming our system of government for profit. 
As a Russia analyst for many years, it also has appalled me that hosts who made their reputations as super-patriots and who, justifiably, savaged President Obama for his duplicitous folly with Putin, now advance Putin's agenda by making light of Russian penetration of our elections and the Trump campaign. Despite increasingly pathetic denials, it turns out that the "nothing-burger" has been covered with Russian dressing all along. And by the way: As an intelligence professional, I can tell you that the Steele dossier rings true–that's how the Russians do things.. The result is that we have an American president who is terrified of his counterpart in Moscow. 
I do not apply the above criticisms in full to Fox Business, where numerous hosts retain a respect for facts and maintain a measure of integrity (nor is every host at Fox News a propaganda mouthpiece–some have shown courage). I have enjoyed and valued my relationship with Fox Business, and I will miss a number of hosts and staff members. You're the grown-ups. 
Also, I deeply respect the hard-news reporters at Fox, who continue to do their best as talented professionals in a poisoned environment. These are some of the best men and women in the business.. 
So, to all of you: Thanks, and, as our president's favorite world leader would say, "Das vidanya." 
SEE ALSO: A brutal battle between 2 Democrats fighting over the party's future has all eyes on Illinois today 
Join the conversation about this story » 
NOW WATCH: This transgender activist and former Obama White House intern isn't backing down against Trump Business Woman who accused the Dallas Mavericks of a hostile work environment has come forward and rips Mark Cuban for his response A former Dallas Mavericks employee who had accused the Mavericks of creating a hostile work environment for women in a Sports Illustrated report has come forward publicly. Writing for SI, Melissa Weishaupt refuted Cuban's claims that he couldn't have known about the alleged harassment and wrote that she feels he still doesn't recognize the culture he helped foster. She is also speaking up for those who still might feel marginalized within the Mavericks organization. 
Melissa Weishaupt, one of the women interviewed for the bombshell report about sexual harassment within the Dallas Mavericks workplace, has come forward publicly, and she has some harsh words for Mark Cuban about his response to the story. 
Writing in Sports Illustrated, who also published the original investigation, Weishaupt wrote, "I am using my name because I am convinced that Cuban still doesn’t recognize the culture he’s helped create or the plight of the women who still work for him." 
In particular, Weishaupt took issue with Cuban's claim that he did not know about the complaints alleging sexual harassment because he was only involved in the basketball side of the business. 
"Sorry. It doesn’t work that way," Weishaupt wrote. "You own 100% of the team, Mark. The buck stops with you. When I worked on the Mavs’ business side, all marketing, promotional and broadcasting decisions went through you. Nothing was decided without your approval." 
Weishaupt responded to Cuban offering counseling and a harassment hotline, writing, "We want equitable pay. We need to be treated with respect. When deserved, we ought to be given the same promotions as our male counterparts." 
Weishaupt wrote in her piece that she was one of the women former Dallas Mavericks president Terdema Ussery had harassed, although she makes it clear that, "I will never say that I am a victim. I am tougher. I am wiser. I am my own advocate." Ussery had responded to the allegations by discrediting the sources for remaining anonymous. 
According to Weishaupt, she also came forward to speak up for women who still feel the need to remain anonymous, for middle-class and minority employees who still might not feel spoken for, and because Texas labor laws leave workers vulnerable. 
You can read the entire column here. 
Join the conversation about this story » 
NOW WATCH: Decorated Olympian Allyson Felix breaks down the importance of #BlackGirlMagic 