Escaped cows cause chaos on Copenhagen highway Ritzau/The Local Not the Copenhagen cows from the story. Photo: Søren Bidstrup/Ritzau Scanpix Ritzau/The Local 9 April 2018 17:15 CEST+02:00 A sizeable herd of cows was the cause of an unusual traffic alert in Copenhagen on Monday afternoon. 
After apparently breaking loose from their field, the cows crossed Vejlands Allé in the Amager district – one of the busiest roads taking traffic into the centre of the capital. 
“Is there a cowboy present?”, Copenhagen Police wrote on Twitter as they sought to clear the bovine backlog. Er der en cowboy til stede. Vi forsøger at indfange 12 - 15 køer ved Vejlands Alle og Artillerivej. Så når du hører, at der er køer på Vejlands, så er det bogstaveligt talt sandt. Det er ikke ment at fange en ko, når man er på motorcykel. Ejeren forsøges kontaktet #politidk — Københavns Politi (@KobenhavnPoliti) April 9, 2018 
Police estimated around 12-15 cows to be on the road in a further Twitter post, but duty officer Michael Andersen told news agency Ritzau that number may be as many as 25. 
“The cows have sneaked over the guard rail and are now located near the lake between Vejlands Allé and the city centre connection,” police wrote on Twitter. Køerne har planket den over autoværnet og befinder sig omkring søen ved Vejlands alle og Centrumforbindelsen. Vi gør alt for at holde dem væk fra kørebanen så du kan komme sikkert hjem - uden at holde for køer. Vi arbejder på at få koejeren tilstede snarest. #politidk — Københavns Politi (@KobenhavnPoliti) April 9, 2018 
The animals were subsequently prevented from further wandering into the road by police motorcycles. 
“We are doing everything we can to keep them away from the road, so you can get home safely. It is not easy to catch a cow when you're on a motorbike,” police tweeted. 
By 3pm on Monday, traffic was flowing normally on the road, although police advised drivers to use other routes if possible. 
The cows were still close to the asphalt and would have to cross back over at some point, police said, adding they were working on locating the owner of the herd.