Top 10 things to do when in Rome 9 April, 2018 

TOP 10 THINGS TO DO WHEN IN ROME. Are you currently planning a trip to Rome? Maybe for the first time? And you are looking for the top places that you must visit while being in the city for the first time? Look no further, I have got you covered. Here are the top 10 things to do when in Rome! Places you absolutely can’t miss, a mix of the bigger attractions to the more hidden gems. I hope you will have a wonderful trip to Rome and be sure not to miss my pasta guide to Rome that I published a couple of days ago, filled with the best pasta spots in the city. The places are not ranked in a special order. 

TOP 10 THINGS TO DO WHEN IN ROME. Håller ni just nu på med planeringen utav en kommande resa till Rom? Kanske är det erat första besök till denna vackra stad och ni vill veta where to go and what to see, look no further, I have got you covered! Här kommer de top 10 platserna som ni absolut inte kan missa medan ni befinner er i Rom, allt från de bästa utkiksplatserna, de vackraste byggnaderna, vilka museum samt gallerier ni ska besöka samt lite annat smått och gott som är bra att hålla koll på med man befinner sig i denna stad. Se även till att inte missa min pasta guide där jag ger er adresserna till de 10 bästa pastaställena i Rom, not to be missed! Platserna är inte skrivna i en specifik ordning. 

GALLERIA BORGHESE – An absolutely beautiful gallery. Make sure to book online before coming. 
Adress: Piazzale Scipione Borghese, 5, 00197 Roma 
GIARDINO DEGLI ARANCI – You can find an absolutely stunning view over Rome from this spot and look out for the oranges! 
Adress: Piazza Pietro D’Illiria, 00153 Roma 
TERRAZZA DEL PINCIO – Here you can find a stunning view over Piazza del Popolo. 
Adress: Viale Gabriele D’Annunzio, 00187 Roma 
VILLA DORIA PAMPHILJ – One of my favourite parks in Rome, absolutely beautiful. 
Adress: Via di S. Pancrazio, 00152 Roma 
VATICAN MUSEUMS – Stunning Egyptian, Greek and Roman antiquities. Make sure to book online before you go here. 
Adress: Viale Vaticano, 00165 Roma 
FONTANA DI TREVI – One of the most stunning fountains in the entire world. Beat the crowds and come here either early in the morning or late in the evening. 
Adress: Piazza di Trevi, 00187 Roma 
VILLA BORGHESE – Beautiful scenery of Rome. A truly beautiful park to visit during spring/summer/fall. 
Adress: Piazzale Napoleone I, 00197 Roma 
ROMAN FORUM – A historic site in Rome, not to be missed if you enjoy history. 
Adress: Via della Salara Vecchia, 5/6, 00186 Roma 
COLOSSEUM – Make sure to take a guided tour and come early to beat the crowds. 
Adress: Piazza del Colosseo, 1, 00184 Roma 
VICTOR EMMANUEL MONUMENT – One of the most spectacular buildings in the world, make sure to go on top of the monument for the most stunning view over Rome but be sure to bring cash because they take no cards if you want to buy a ticket to go to the top. 
Adress: Piazza Venezia, 00186 Roma 
VILLA D’ESTE – A short drive outside of Rome you find this gorgeous Unesco Heritage garden and palace. Perfect if you want to do a little day trip. 
Adress: Piazza Trento, 5, 00019 Tivoli Share this: