Entertainment Cardi B cancels Longitude performance 
Cardi B has cancelled her performance at this year’s Longitude Festival in Marley Park following her announcement that she is pregnant with her first child. 
The Bodak Yellow singer broke confirmed that she is expecting a baby with her fiancé, rapper Offset from hip-hop trio Migos, during an appearance on Saturday Night Live at the weekend. 
She showed off her baby bump in a tight fitting white dress as she sang Be Careful, from her new album Invasion of Privacy. 
Following her appearance on the show, Cardi B tweeted: "I started winning when the whole world was doubting on me! Think imma lose with my little baby counting on me?" 
I started winning when the whole world was doubting on me !think imma lose with my little baby counting on me ? 
— iamcardib (@iamcardib) April 8, 2018 
Offset also shared a picture of the happy couple on Twitter with the caption: "Cardi and I look forward to our next chapter together." 
C A R D I A N D I L O O K F O R W A R D T O O U R N E X T C H A P T E R T O G E T H E R pic.twitter.com/C1QizKV3Cb 
— OFFSET (@OffsetYRN) April 8, 2018 
Cardi B was due to play at Longitude which takes place in Marley Park in Dublin on July 13 – 15, but has now cancelled her performance. 
Taking to Twitter the festival organisers said: "Massive congratulations to Cardi B! Unfortunately this means she won't be performing at @longitudefest this year. However stay tuned for a big announcement coming soon! 
Massive congratulations to Cardi B! 💕 @iamcardibUnfortunately this means she won't be performing at @longitudefest this year. However stay tuned for a big announcement coming soon! pic.twitter.com/SOk7NCXSSq 
— Longitude Festival (@longitudefest) April 9, 2018 
The Longitude festival takes place on July 13-15 in Marlay Park, Dublin with no word on whether or not Offset will honour his commitments yet with Migos who are due to take the stage alongside J. Cole and Post Malone on Friday night. 
On Saturday, Travis Scott leads the line-up with Diplo and Tyler, The Creator. 
Beyoncé’s sister Solange will hit the main stage as the Sunday night headliner and Anderson .Paak & The Free Nationals and Sampha complete the festival headline billing. 
Click here for more music news and reviews. Entertainment Dire Straits and those possible Hall of Fame no shows 
It appears unlikely that either Mark Knopfler or his brother David, founding members of Dire Straits will be present at the induction of the band into The Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame which takes place next Saturday in Cleveland, Ohio. 
Both Mark and David Knopfler have individually expressed that they probably will not be there, David through a Facebook comment and Mark in a recent interview with radio station WNCX. Mark Knopfler declared his wish that Bob Dylan or Eric Clapton would induct the band, but no presenters for Dire Straits have been announced as yet, according to Stereogum. 
The other inductees on the night include Bon Jovi, The Cars, The Moody Blues, Nina Simone and Sister Rosetta Tharpe. 
It is believed that among the six Dire Straits members being officially inducted, only Alan Clark, John Illsley, and Guy Fletcher will attend. 
In a Q&A former DS keyboardist Fletcher said that a "video presentation" will take the place of a traditional performance. 
Whatever about "no shows" from founding members, the show must go on and the official Rock And Roll Hall Of Fame website carries the following citation concerning Dire Straits. 
"Mixed with blues and a dash of country – the dire straits were one of the few rock bands to break out in an era dominated by punk and disco. The introspective lyrics with out-of-this-world guitar and drum sounds made them one of the most original rock bands of the 80s." 
The band's most popular album, Brothers in Arms, recorded at Air Studios in the Caribbean island of Montserrat was released in May 1985. The album, which included the mega hit Money for Nothing has sold in excess of 30 million copies worldwide. It is the fourth best selling album in UK chart history. 