  INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY EXPRESSES GRAVE CONCERN OVER SOMALILAND/SOMALIA   Moh 
” The United Nations, African Union, European Union, Inter-Governmental Authority on Development, Ethiopia, Italy, Sweden, the United Kingdom and the United States are extremely concerned by recent political and security developments in Mogadishu that risk derailing hard-earned political, economic, and security achievements and tarnishing the reputation of Somalia. 
The international community urges all Somali leaders and politicians to respect the rule of law and the Provisional Federal Constitution in resolving political differences. This needs to include preservation of democratic space. Activities that increase tensions leading to possible violence should be avoided at all costs. 
The international community urges leaders in Parliament and the Executive to engage in respectful discussions in the coming days and to use constitutional and peaceful means to resolve political differences. 
The international community commends those groups and individuals who are mediating a peaceful resolution to political differences and stands behind their efforts. ” ~ Source: UNSOM ~ 
How much we hate to say we told you so ?! Just yesterday Mr. Muse Bihi and his friend Mr. Mohamed kahin were declaring a war against these idiots in Mogadishu , . And we were saying not so fast just cool down your jets ? they want only to deceive the people from corruption they are involved both in Mogadishu and Hargeisa . 
The problem started by the hypocrisy of prime minister Ali Khayre first he went to Dubai to sign Berbera port and Berbera base when he came back home he started verbal abuse against somaliland but he lost the control of that political theater which now getting very serious most probably coming back to bite him . …………. All these politicians in Somalia and Somaliland have dual nationalities most of them have western nationalities , . We The people urge international community please keep them accountable . European union and United states already promise they will keep their citizens accountable if they involved corruption in Somaliland / Somalia let us see the results , . We need action and we need now ., Either Somaliland / Somalia kill corruption or corruption kills Somaliland / Somalia . 
Colonel Muse Bihi and colonel Kahin are jailing Somaliland youth because they are dreamed of Somalia flag , absurd .