How you can Change PAN Card Identify and Replace Different Particulars On-line How you can Change PAN Card Identify and Replace Different Particulars On-line April 10, 2018 Trending No Comments 
Making use of for a PAN card on-line is a simple course of that doesn’t require submission of paperwork by way of publish or courier. When you have misplaced your PAN card or if you wish to change identify on PAN card or replace different particulars, then you possibly can observe one other easy course of that’s fully on-line. This course of will assist you to apply for a reprint of your PAN card or to get any errors reminiscent of incorrect identify, picture, date of delivery, and many others up to date. 
The next steps are for revision or reprint of PAN card for people solely they usually might range when you’re making use of for a PAN card underneath different classes reminiscent of belief, firm, or restricted legal responsibility partnership. How you can change PAN card identify on-line 
This information covers every kind of corrections in your PAN card, together with identify adjustments. There are a number of the explanation why you could want a reputation change on a PAN card reminiscent of incorrect spelling, otherwise you’ve really modified your identify (maybe as a result of marriage ceremony or every other purpose). The tactic described beneath entails Aadhaar eKYC, so in case your identify is appropriate on Aadhaar card, you possibly can observe the steps beneath and get it modified on PAN card. 
If not, you’ll need to submit paperwork displaying that your identify has modified or has been printed incorrectly. These paperwork embrace publication of identify change in an official gazette, marriage certificates and marriage ceremony invitation (together with a doc to point out the identify of your partner), or different legitimate paperwork with the proper identify reminiscent of a passport. This doc depends upon the explanation to your identify change, and you will see that out which one you want as you undergo the method beneath. Paperwork required for revision of particulars on PAN card 
The record of paperwork wanted for revision of PAN card is similar as that for making use of for a brand new PAN card. You want paperwork for id proof, handle proof, and date of delivery. 
See the total record of accepted paperwork required for updating PAN card particulars on-line. 
How you can apply for reprint or revision of PAN card on-line 
These steps will provide help to ship in your utility to revise or reprint your PAN card. 
You will get your PAN card reprinted or revised by way of NSDL or UTITSL web sites. We did this by way of the NSDL web site and the steps beneath will replicate that. 
First go to the NDSL web site . Click on on the drop-down menu underneath Utility Sort and choose Adjustments or Correction in present PAN Knowledge / Reprint of PAN Card (No adjustments in present PAN Knowledge) . Now fill in all the small print, enter the captcha code, after which click on Submit . 
Within the subsequent step you possibly can select the way you wish to submit your PAN paperwork. This may be completed by way of an e-KYC that wants an Aadhaar card, by way of submission of scanned photos by way of e-Signal, or by bodily sending paperwork. We selected e-KYC by way of Aadhaar so the steps will range somewhat when you select one of many different strategies. Fill in all of the fields marked with a pink asterisk (star) after which click on Subsequent . 
Enter your private particulars within the fields marked with a pink asterisk and click on Subsequent . 
Guarantee that all these particulars are precisely as talked about in your Aadhaar card. If there’s a mismatch, you won’t be able to authenticate by way of Aadhaar till you repair it and also you solely discover out if there’s a mismatch after paying. In case there’s a mismatch, you get a refund however to keep away from this, double-check all particulars proper now. 
Now choose the doc you wish to submit alongside together with your utility. We clicked on eKYC , crammed all the small print, after which clicked Proceed . 
Now you will note the payment (excluding on-line cost prices). Revision of PAN card or reprint of PAN card prices round Rs. 120 (all inclusive) for Indians and round Rs. 1,040 for these exterior India. Click on Pay Verify . 
Enter your cost particulars and end the cost course of. Then you will note a web page that tells you if the transaction was profitable. If it was, you get a financial institution reference quantity and a transaction reference quantity. Save these two after which click on Proceed . 
Now you’ll have to authenticate by way of Aadhaar. Beneath your Aadhaar quantity, tick the field after which click on Authenticate . 
In case your private particulars match with what’s talked about in your Aadhaar card, click on Proceed with e-Signal / e-KYC . 
Tick the examine field after which click on Generate OTP . 
Enter the OTP after which click on Submit . 
Now you’ll attain a web page the place you see your utility kind because it was submitted. Obtain this in PDF format and retailer it someplace. Additionally, you will obtain the acknowledgement by way of e mail. 
That’s the total course of to replace or reprint PAN card on-line. As soon as your utility has been processed, your PAN card shall be printed and despatched to your handle. 
For extra tutorials, go to the How To part . Share this: 