How the Huawei Mate 10 Pro can improve your travel experience Apr 5 Facebook 
While traveling around the world, there are always some things we bring. No matter the destination or circumstances, I always bring a smartphone. And recently, I started thinking the Huawei Mate 10 Pro is the perfect smartphone for travelers and bloggers. Here’s why! Long battery life to keep you going 
The Huawei Mate 10 Pro is one of the smartphones with a very buffed battery. It’s one of the longest lasting batteries currently on the market. With a whopping 4000 mAh, you should be able to last a full day comfortably, and maybe even a second day if you are an economical user. Translate anything with the Mate 10 Pro 
This Huawei flagship smartphone has a cool feature in it. The AI learns loads of languages and constantly gets improved. So what does this mean? Well, when you are abroad and see a menu in a foreign language, it’s often guessing what it says. I try to learn a couple of words from the local language to be able to know what I’m getting. But this technique isn’t foolproof. 
With the Mate 10 Pro, you can translate menus in real-time. You just take a picture of the menu and the phone processes the letters and bring a translation almost immediately. So gone are the days of surprise meats, funky veggies, and drinks that really aren’t your thing. The great image processing of the Mate 10 Pro 
I already talked about this more in depth in the Huawei Mate 10 pro review for photographers . The camera has several shooting programs to help you get the best shot of each situation. 
If you are shooting in jpg, which I recommend for beginning photographers, the AI processes your photo for you. It does this in a way that mimics professional photographers. This will provide you with images that are professional looking with a minimum an effort for you. 
For the more advanced photographers, the Huawei Mate 10 Pro allows you to shoot in RAW. Which is awesome! 
Mate 10 Pro camera specs: 20 MP Monochrome + 12 MP RGB, f/1.6 OIS (Optical image stabilization) 