Velayati i Damaskus: Israel vil bli straffet Av: Hans Rustad 10. april 2018, 12:52 Russian President Vladimir Putin (R) welcomes Ali Akbar Velayati, former Iranian Foreign Minister, special foreign affairs envoy and a representative of Iranian Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei at the presidential residence in Novo-Ogaryovo outside Moscow, February 8, 2007. REUTERS/Denis Sinyakov/Pool (RUSSIA) 
Rådgiver for Den øverste leder, Ali Khamenei, Ali Akbar Velayati ankom Damaskus tirsdag og sa umiddelbart at Israels angrep natt til mandag, der syv iranere ble drept, ikke vil gå ustraffet. 
Først het det at fire iranere var drept. Tallet er oppjustert til syv og det skal være snakk om militære rådgivere. De er fløyet tilbake til Teheran og vil bli gravlagt tirsdag. 
Utenriksminister Zarif mener USA trengte et påskudd for å angripe Syria. “It seems the U.S. government is looking for an excuse for military intervention,” Iran’s foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, said as he arrived in Brazil early on Tuesday, according to state media. “Iran’s stance on chemical weapons is clear and we condemn any use of them against any target,” Zarif added. 
Iransk nærvær 
Israel anslår at Iran har 20.000 mann i Syria og tallet har vært konstant i lang tid. Det fordeler seg på 2.000 iranske rådgivere, 7.500 Hizbollah-krigere og 9.000 militssoldater fra Irak, Pakistan og Bangladesh som er til dels vervet, til dels tvangsrekruttert. 
De militære i Israel ønsker at regjeringen skal markere at det går røde linjer for iransk nærvær og håndheve dem. 
Security officials support an offensive and determined approach to stop Iran from gaining a foothold in Syria . This tough stance, shared by all branches of Israeli security, was recently presented to political officials. Defense Minister Avigdor Lieberman and IDF Chief of Staff Gadi Eisenkot have made clear a number of times over the past few months that increased Iranian military presence in Syria will be perceived as a red line and that Israel will act to protect its security interests. 
Angrepet på T-4 basen har derfor bred oppslutning. 
Israel oppfatter at Russland har endret politikk og nå holder sin hånd over Iran. Det betyr helt nye sikkerhetsutfordringer for Israel: 
The impression is that Russia is now backing Tehran in its continued military actions in Syria, even if it means increased friction on the border with Israel. 
Truslene gjør israelerne mer bevisst på landets sikkerhet. Netanyahu har bred støtte. Mandag var han i Sderot i Negev, hvor Hamas-rakettene slår ned. 
“The first thing that is happening here may be summarized in one word – security: Security for Sderot, security for the area adjacent to the Gaza Strip, security for the Negev, security for Israel, security in the future,” Netanyahu said. 
Så slo han fast doktrinen for den nye tid: Hvis noen markerer at de vil angripe Israel, vil ikke Israel nøle med å angripe. Det gjelder Hamas, det gjelder Libanon, det gjelder Syria. 
“We have one clear and simple rule and we seek to express it constantly: if someone tries to attack you – rise up and attack him. We will not allow, here on the Gaza border, them to hurt us. We will hurt them,” he said. 
“Security in the present is a necessary condition for security in the future and what we have here today is a powerful expression for our future security,” Netanyahu said, apparently referring to the dual threats Israel faces in the north and in the south. 
Derfor likte Israel svært dårlig signalene fra Trump om at USA skulle forlate Syria. Det ville gjøre Israels oppgave mye tyngre. 
