The Desire For Everything: Understanding The Human Predicament | Sadhguru by admin on Apr 11, 2018 
Sadhguru looks at the fundamental nature of the human predicament, and explains that a human being will not settle for anything less than everything. Once you set your sights on „All“, experiencing something beyond the physicality is the only way – and that’s what spirituality is. 
Transcript: http://isha.sadhguru.org/blog/video/desire-everything-human-predicament/ 
Sadhguru: Good evening everyone. I will not attempt speaking in Telugu, okay (Laughs)? Once we are born as human beings life got complicated – if we had come here like any other creature on the planet – stomach full, life settled. Once we come as human beings, stomach empty – only one problem, stomach full – one hundred problems; because what we refer to as human really begins only after survival is taken care of. Only when survival is fulfilled, the traits of being human will find expression. Till as long as we are struggling for survival, we are also just another biological entity like any other creature. 
So what does it mean to be human, what is the significance? Because every other creature can fulfill almost everything that most human beings are doing without so much fuss. We are born, they are also born just like us. We grow up with lot of fuss, they grow up with… without much fuss. For us earning a living is a very big thing, all of them earn their own living. We may reproduce, they reproduce. We die, they die. All this with… we do with enormous fuss, they do it without much fuss – in a (an?) ec… ecofriendly manner (Laughs) they conduct their life. 
Everything is a big fuss. Why it is so is human life is not fulfilled by fulfilling the basic requirements of survival. If we could eat well and everything would be okay, then it would be very simple to feed the world. But that’s not how it is because for every other creature nature has drawn two lines, within which they live and die. For a human being there is only a bottom line, there is no top line. He can aspire for anything. Because there is no top line, people are struggling. Or in other words what we are struggling with is not our bondage as usually popularly it is said – we are truly struggling with our freedom. We can be whichever way we want, that’s our struggle. If our lives were fixed like every other creature’s life we would also be… stomach full, we would sit peacefully, isn’t it? Hello, I’m talking to you. Yes or no? (Laughs) 
Participants: Yes. 