Murderous Pursuits has major tweaks compared to The Ship Blazing Griffin's Barry Waldo talked us through some of the key features. Text: Sam Bishop Published on the 12th of Apr 2018 at 11 
Murderous Pursuits is a game coming from The Ship's developer Blazing Griffin, and Chief Marketing Officer Barry Waldo talked to us at PAX East about the upcoming release, and what's new about it when compared to their previous (but similar) title The Ship. 
"It's eight players in a server at a time, and those eight players are blended with bots," he explained. "So there's eight different characters, you get to select which character that you would like to play at the very beginning - people can be the same character actually, you're not quite sure - and then there are bots that actually look like your character in the game room. So the more you play the more you'll discern who's a bot and who's a player. Obviously you're playing to kill another player, who may or may not be trying to kill you at the same time, so that is part of the nuance of it." 
"We certainly have heard a lot from our fans of The Ship and The Ship Remastered over the years, but also the internal team, they're die-hards on this game, so they kind of know exactly what we want to make, and so they're as opinionated as the people giving us information on our social media channels," he added. 
"One of the things that was really important to them was that, when you get killed, that you're not thrown out of the game, and that happened in some of the original gameplay. So you do get timed out, and there are some setbacks, because obviously the goal is to not get killed, but also to be accomplishing kills, and so that's one of the biggest ones, because you get timed out a bit, but then you get rebooted and you're back in the game and you get assigned a whole new [challenge]." 
"Also, we have a disguise feature that I absolutely love. So if your stalker is following you, you can literally walk around the corner real quick and turn into another character, and turn around and walk right past your pursuer [...] Now that doesn't last very long - it'll eventually turn back into your character - but those kinds of things we didn't have time or the runway to include in The Ship Remastered." 
The game itself is coming to PC on April 26. Do you fans of The Ship like the sound of Murderous Pursuits? Related texts