PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds gets a blue zone tweak Miramar has also been adjusted. Text: Markus Hirsilä   14 
Key ingredients in making PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds an intense game are the ever-shrinking play area and a so-called blue zone, but now it's time to adjust the latter as part of a new patch for the PC version of the game. 
As part of this change there will be even less time to "linger between phases", and what's more is that the player's movement speed is reduced while in the blue zone, which now also moves more slowly towards the end of the game. Take a look at some more of the changes below: 
Blue zone delay time has been reduced. You'll be given less time to linger between phases. The maximum movement speed of the blue zone has been reduced. The blue zone will move more slowly toward the end of the game. The damage inflicted by 7th, 8th, and 9th blue zones has been increased. Except for the first blue zone, the probability of creating an extreme safe zone (one far away from the center of the previous circle) has been reduced by 30%. The final blue zone will narrow down to the center instead of narrowing down to a random spot, and the total wait time including the blue zone inactive time has been reduced. (195 seconds to 90 seconds) As the end of the match approaches, the safe zone will increasingly favor areas with land over areas with water. On Erangel specifically, the first safe zone will now be revealed 30 seconds earlier. On Miramar specifically, players can now see the first safe zone while flying in the airplane. (We may or may not carry this over to the next live update. We want your feedback about this change.) In-game clothing spawns have been removed from all maps. Other item spawn balance remains the same. 
The devs have also made some changes to the Miramar map's northern section to "make it a more appealing area". Aside from these gameplay changes, there has also been a handful of bug fixes, as you'd expect. 
Do you agree with the blue zone changes? Related texts