April 12, 2018 Must Have Accessories to Glam Up your Master-Bath 
Apart from mobile phones transforming into smart-phones, the 21 st century has witnessed yet another transformation. Bath spaces are no longer a mere functional space in the house hold but it is the one that is central to a home’s style and well-being. Below are a few must have accessories to make your master bath stunningly luxurious. 
Sounds complex, but its surprisingly simple! Keep reading to find out. Unique Art Panels 
When there are handmade art panels by the world famous art designer Alex Turco himself, why be satisfied with the ordinary? Just choose the place, and yes these can fit in any place, from the wettest to the driest, and the size you want. 
Each panel can be customized and made according to the clients’ needs and taste. Let alone the size, even the color, pattern and finishes can be arranged as per the requisite to create the ideal artwork for any environment. Now even those posh designer tiles sounds passé right? Go ahead and add some artistic glamour to your bath space with the epic creations from the master himself. Statement Mirrors 
Think past the mere ornamental decorative mirror. The need of the hour calls for something that’s beyond being just a statement piece. Imagine owning a mirror that personifies elegance and smartness. That is exactly what the mirrors from the iconic brand Vanita & Casa does . 
With their specifically engineered LED illuminated mirror line they have built a technology that is advanced and induces newer emotions and excitement. Apart from smart controls like playing music via Bluetooth with vibration speakers, these mirrors come with an infrared on/off sensor with dimmer function. So amuse your senses with some light and music while you relax and stun your visitors at the wonders a mirror can do. Luxurious Bathtub 
Consider this as a necessity realized in luxury. If placing a bath tub is a need then why not do it in some creativity? Having a flamboyant bath tub that looks elegant definitely oozes luxury in your bath space. Don’t let your imagination stop at a Jacuzzi, check out the bath tubs from the most reputed world-class brands such as Falper, Globo, Devon and Devon,etc.. 
Made from the most precious materials these bath tubs are a definite treat to the eye and bliss to the senses. Choose from a vast range of the latest and most striking designs that are sure to leave every visitor in your bath space awed. Get it and flaunt it! Shower Heads 
Definitely yes! That little item in the bath space can either make it or break it. Imagine having the most beautifully accessorized bathroom and a shower head that looks ordinary. Luxury ruined. Worry not, let us lead you to that world famous brand which has integrated aesthetics and beauty in the functionality of shower heads, - IB Rubinetterie . Along with spectacular designs, the chromo therapy enabled multi-functional shower heads are here to glam up the concept of health care. 
And there’s more. Thermostatic shower valve, all-in-one body jets, hand shower and full body showerhead and a color combination of 60,000 controlled by a waterproof remote. Sounds breath taking? That’s the recipe of ultimate grandeur. Elegant Faucets It although might sound strange to include faucets as a segment of accessories, until you are aware of the celebrated brand Fima Carlo Frattini. They have completely revolutionized the concept of bathroom fittings. Their series of products are ideal for the most premium segment buildings that require interpretation of design and technology. Highly customable and an exhaustive variety of the most state of art designs, these series of products lend sophistication, and drama to your bath space. Acknowledge your contemporary taste and give your bathroom a greater character with the fittings that enclose charm in extravagant shapes. A Touch of Nature Preserved reindeer moss is the product and POLAR MOSS is the brand . You might have placed the most expensive and exotic flowers and plants in your bath space but that’s an ordinary practice and your master bath deserves something more. Decorate it with the natural sobriety of natural reindeer moss. POLAR MOSS is the largest manufacturer and supplier of this unique product that add a living dimension to your interior design. Indulge in some genuine experience of peaceful connection with the natural aroma of the northern forests in your bath space itself. 
Wondering how to get your hands on these amazing products of the most reputed and respected brands? Just pay a visit to our Gallery - AAREN Intpro, Bangalore , India, and expose yourself to the most precious products from world class brands, available exclusively at our studio. 