Loc: behind small river mouth Acc: Hilleberg Allak tent Dist: 30,2 km Start: 07:05 End: 14:30 
I woke to the feeling everything outside my bag was soaking wet…and quite cold. my down bag urgently needs a dry out this evening! I love my fleece liner inside the sleeping bag…still a warm feeling. 
I packed in darkness, to be ready to go at 7 am when I agreed yesterday to call the Coastguard to receive the early morning bar update. I was impatient to call already at 6.45 am when I was ready to go, but the lady at the other end said it is just in the updating proces…please call again… 
I had to run around to stay warm those 15 min…ok, I could also already have jumped into my kayak to start paddling…but at 7 am, I got the ok the bar conditions changed from fully red to fully green – just what I liked to hear what I was sensing anyway…I quickly got going, and got flooded out with the last ebb tide to the bar. Not much going on here, as forecasted…I could turn left pretty soon, and sensed today’s swell with 1,50 m was really a different game to yesterday! At lowest tide and some further hours, I estimated I could quite safely land on the open beach. It was just too early! 
It was low headwinds all morning, I saw a few whales like the other days, always a pleasure! At noon, it breezed up quite a bit. The sea state got rougher, the surf looked a tad bit larger, but still doable to my estimation. I felt I got quite quickly sick of punching into an almost twenty knots headwind and quite some white caps, though I reckoned I just have to hold on until the tide turns, which was at 2pm. But in this speed, I would arrive at the Umpqua River mouth, now only 13,5 km short, at 5.30 pm. It would be the strongest ebb-current, and who knows what the “official” bar state would be at that time…and I didn’t feel neither like dealing with the authorities once more, nor working my way up a strong-flowing river mouth…I decided it’s not worth the effort to punch on – I’ll go in on the open beach – freedom! Ok, I knew it would be firs very low wind, and then following tomorrow, and the swell would also be even lower…so getting out next morning should be fine. 
Just past a small river mouth, I sensed there was a bit of a gap in the surf as always, and I took my chance, knowing that going in on almost high tide would be a bit of a gamble. But I think I needed this gamble…to see if my estimation was right, and my surf-landing skills would still be there on these relatively easy conditions. I waited out the larger sets, punched in, but when my stern got lifted violently, I had to balance out a pirouette-turn on top of a crest (whatever that means…), It eventually got me sideways, and the next lower one caught me in a bad position – and I went under for the second time on this trip. But I came u with a perfect roll, and landed upright on my keel. Well…it was still quite some surf…as always, it looks smaller from outside 🙂 
But I am confident tomorrow morning it will be low surf on low tide and low wind to get out easy – just like now at 7 pm. I have a date in Sunset Bay Park tomorrow…still about 55 km to go! 
After landing, I pulled up my skeg rudder, and I realized the last time I took it apart, I must have done the knot in the uphauling string not tight enough…I pulled, and had a very long uphauling string in my hand! Yauuu…but first, I spread out all my gear in the sunny afternoon beach, which was just what the doctor ordered. I remembered I had a piece of wire in my repair kit, managed after a few tries to get it through with a slightly bent end, and to attach the new line at the hook with some additional stitches to eventaully be able to pull the line on the wire safely through the channel without losing connection. I should have remembered that special piece of wire last time in Warrenton…glad I am so organized and well-prepared 🙂