Alpega and GateHouse Logistics Partner to Provide Live Vehicle Tracking to Transwide and Teleroute Customers Share this Share 
Transwide and Teleroute users will have live vehicle visibility and additional services, such as geo fencing and “corridoring” on strategic shipments 
Logistics software company Alpega and supply chain data aggregator and unifier GateHouse Logistics today jointly announce a strategic partnership to provide Transwide and Teleroute customers with live vehicle visibility and tracking and additional services for strategic shipments. 
Over the last months, the two companies have developed and tested a comprehensive interface between their platforms. With the technical integration of the two platforms completed, Transwide customers can now request live vehicle tracking for monitoring transport execution to carriers whose telematics system is connected to GateHouse Logistics’ secure data sharing service – ghTrack ® . The process is simple and activation seamless. 
By developing the interface, Transwide and Teleroute users will have live vehicle visibility and additional services, such as geo fencing and “corridoring” on strategic shipments with minimal impact on the operations of carriers. 
Shippers will be able to request live vehicle tracking from their carriers, which carriers can activate upon request on a per truck basis via the ghTrack service. Once a transport load starts, the onboard unit data automatically feeds Transwide software and provides the shipper with total visibility on transport execution. 
With more than 400 different telematics systems connected to ghTrack, the service will have coverage of thousands of trucks making it one of the most comprehensive track and trace solutions in the supply chain. 
“Alpega is a very focused partner whose strategy of providing real-time transport execution software fits perfectly with GateHouse Logistics’ mission of providing secure live vehicle information,” says Jesper Bennike, CEO of Gatehouse Logistics. “The Transwide platform perfectly integrates with our ghTrack data distribution service and delivers increased value to Alpega’s customers.” 
“Visibility of transport execution is paramount for our customers, and integration with ghTrack makes it easier for carriers to provide their customers with live information without disrupting any processes,” adds Fabrice Maquignon, CEO Transwide and Teleroute (ALPEGA Group). “The interface is now available to Transwide customers and will be available to Teleroute users in the coming weeks.” Mette Dietz Lilkær 
Published March 20, 2018 in Press Release Keep informed. Get updates in your inbox. 
Subscribe here to receive our newsletter. Newsletter