Indhold fra partner Hvad er dette? 
S tuttgart/Hamburg, March 7, 2018: thinkstep AG and EPEA Internationale Umweltforschung GmbH have announced a strategic partnership to scale EPEA’s Cradle to Cradle® (C2C) concept using thinkstep software solutions and offer combined services with value-added benefits to their respective clients. af thinkstep   
With its solutions for material compliance management and lifecycle assessment (LCA), thinkstep supports organisations towards more resource efficiency with quantitative impact assessments. EPEA is the cradle of Cradle to Cradle®, a design and innovation concept based on the safe and potentially infinite use of materials in nutrient cycles. In joining forces, the C2C concept will be scaled using software solutions and combined with quantitative assessments to maximize product and service innovation, incorporating circularity, resource efficiency as well as resource effectivity and future-proof material compliance. 
Currently, thinkstep and EPEA are working to combine software solutions and Cradle to Cradle® projects in a scalable way, thereby making their mutually beneficial services available to a larger group of potential customers. As a first product from their collaboration, thinkstep and EPEA are proud to announce a web-based C2C BOM compliance check tool, which allows for quick assessment of C2C banned substances from a Bill-of Materials (BOM) import. Further combined offerings, from integrating LCA and C2C to various tools and joint services supporting Cradle to Cradle® product innovation, will be announced soon. 
“By combining and advancing C2C as a material design concept with LCA for impact assessment, we are in a unique position to offer our clients the best of both worlds”, said Jan Poulsen, thinkstep CEO. 
“Together we can support companies in a much better way than before from focusing on doing less bad to doing more good, by leveraging the power of digitalization. By productizing the C2C concept and embedding it in industry software from thinkstep, Cradle to Cradle® will become a day to day reality for product designers, engineers and managers around the world”, said Prof. Michael Braungart, CEO of EPEA GmbH and co-inventor of the Cradle to Cradle® approach. 
thinkstep and EPEA are convinced that by combining quantitative impact assessment and Cradle to Cradle® design principles to create a positive footprint, the two companies will better support businesses in improving their existing products while adopting new and circular product innovation. 
About thinkstep: thinkstep is a leading provider of software, data and consulting services for product and corporate sustainability. thinkstep enables organizations worldwide to succeed sustainably. Our industry-leading software solutions, data and services help businesses drive operational excellence, product innovation, brand value and regulatory compliance. With a global presence in 19 countries, we serve more than 4,000 companies, including 40 percent of the Fortune 500, such as BASF, Hewlett-Packard, Interface, Siemens, and Unilever. 
About EPEA: EPEA's core competences are product optimization and development as well as material evaluation according to the Cradle to Cradle design concept. As an international scientific research and consulting institute, we develop solutions for companies, institutions and regions regarding the implementation of circular processes for the entire value chain. 
Cradle to Cradle® is a registered trademark of McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry, LLC (MBDC). 
For additional information, contact: 
Niles Maxwell, Content & Communications Manager 
thinkstep AG