Trainee Program as IT Security Consultant Omada A/S Storkøbenhavn Øresundsregionen 
Take on the challenge of your life by joining the Omada Professional Services team. You will learn how to become a trusted consultant, configuring and implementing world class IT security solutions for large enterprises across Europe and the US. You will go through extensive training and introductions, yet also gain responsibility and influence from day one. 
The trainee program starts on 1 August 2018. Applications should be received by 20th May. 
You will be joining Omada at a very exciting time, where there are a lot of opportunities. We are growing at a fast pace, as the demand for high quality and efficient IT security solutions within Identity Governance and Administration (IGA) is continuously increasing. 
Your responsibility as a trainee As a trainee at Omada, you will join an international team consisting of some of the most skilled consultants within the field of IGA. You will begin by getting an overall introduction to Omada and our IT security solution, Omada Identity Suite. After completion of this, your real training begins. You will learn about the various parts of the implementation process and how to work with our solution, and after the six months of the trainee program, you should be able to fill out project roles on your own. 
Your initial assignments will be to: Gather and document business requirements (analysis and design) Install the product Configure workflows Enable connectors for integration 
At a later stage, when your skills within our product and the field of IGA have increased, we expect that you can start providing advice to our customers on how they can solve their individual IT security issues with our solution. 
During the trainee program, you will have a personal mentor that will guide and help you through your traineeship. 
Your qualifications and experience You have a relevant education within IT, Mathematics, Engineering or similar (for example, a Master’s degree) where you have learned to structure and analyze tasks, apply logical thinking and a have pragmatic and practical approach to solving problems. You know how to motivate yourself and find large amounts of data, data formats and complex data relations challenging. 
You have a good understanding of IT and have preferably already some experience within the world of software development, programming or scripting from your studies. You have the ability to quickly understand and learn how to use new software tools and technical concepts, and a strong desire to dive deeply into methodology and technology. 
You have a can-do attitude and feel comfortable when you are part of discussions with people from different cultures and backgrounds, when you work in teams, and you are capable of hosting workshops and bringing people together for a common understanding. 
We have a mix of international ad Danish customers and for this reason, it is a requirement that you speak and write both English and Danish. 
Working at Omada At Omada , we are experts in cybersecurity, taking our customers by the hand, helping them to take identity and access management to the next level. We offer you the opportunity to work with passionate, competent people, experts within their field, in an informal and agile organization with a flat structure. We thrive on being challenged and everything we do is anchored in our core values of ambition, teamwork, constant care, and creating value. 
We are a dynamic and ambitious high growth international IT software company, headquartered in Denmark, with people in six locations across Europe and the US, and last year alone, we hired close to 100 people. 
Contact For further information, please contact Recruitment and HR Consultant, Anna M. May at +45 3122 5618. Ansøgningsfrist d. 20.05.2018 2018-05-20 00:00:00