The Banner Saga 3 slippes løs den 24. april Trejde og sidste kapitel ankommer den 24. juli. Af 1 
Indie-udvikleren Stoic og udgiveren Versus Evil kan i dag fortælle, at The Banner Saga 3 slippes løs på PC, Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One og Nintendo Switch den 24. juli. 
Derved vil tredje kapitel af RPG-trilogien se dagens lys. Du kan i dag også se om du skulle have lyst til at forudbestille og derved få lidt bonusser. Vi har inkluderet pressemeddelelsen herunder. 
BALTIMORE, MD – April 13th 2018 – Versus Evil, a leading independent video game publisher in partnership with Stoic, an indie video game developer, today announced that the third and final chapter in the award winning Viking RPG trilogy, Banner Saga 3 will launch on July 24th, 2018 for PC, Mac, PlayStation 4, Xbox One and Nintendo Switch. Mobile platforms are expected to launch later on in the year. The team also unveiled the PC pre-order offer details for the ‘Dredge Ally Pack’. Fans who digitally pre-order the game through Steam and other digital PC retailers will get the following in-game items as a bonus: Dredge Stoneguard Character – Rank 10 Hero called Kivi Unique Combat Ability : Tank Unique Dredge Item – Sculptor’s Tools Exclusive Dredge Heraldry Unique Heroic Title : “Shield Cleaver’ Exclusive Banner Saga 3 Overture Track – by Grammy-nominated and two-time BAFTA winning composer Austin Wintory 
“ Banner Saga 3 represents the feeling of closure but also immense accomplishment to a trilogy that has been at the very fabric of our lives for many years. We’re ever thankful to the fans and backers that have shared this epic journey with us and helped us deliver what we feel is a fitting end to our Viking adventure. ” Said John Watson, Technical Director of Stoic. 
There will be three digital versions of the game at launch. The Standard Edition of Banner Saga 3 on PC will cost $24.99, while the Deluxe Edition will be priced at $29.99 and will include the game’s official soundtrack composed by Austin Wintory in addition to a digital wallpaper, world map and the ‘Gold Wasp’ in-game title. 
The Banner Saga 3 Legendary Edition is priced at $39.99 and includes everything that comes in the Deluxe Edition as well as the exclusive ‘Shadow Walker’ Heroic Title, the ‘Petrie Clan Ring’ exclusive legendary item and digital novel ‘Gift of Hadrborg’. 
“ Banner Saga 3 will maintain the legacy created by the previous two games in the series. Even more exciting is the fact that in addition to PC we are bringing Banner Saga 3 to PlayStation 4, Microsoft’s XBox One and the Nintendo Switch simultaneously at launch. Stoic have created a trilogy that will stand the test of time as one of the best RPGs ever created and one that has resonated with fans from all over the world. This is it! This is the end. If there was ever a time to experience the Banner Saga it is now .” Adds Versus Evil General Manager, Steve Escalante. TAGS