Rare lufter endelig fremtidsplanerne for Sea of Thieves Af 0 
Sea of Thieves er, med rette, blevet kritiseret for at mangle indhold. Nu fortæller Rare endelig lidt om de kortsigtede fremtidsplaner for spillet. 
Som vi også konkluderede i vores anmeldelse af Sea of Thieves , har Rare skabt en flot og stemningsfuld “sandkasse”, som i den grad mangler reelt indhold. Indtil nu har Rare gentagende gange undveget på spørgsmål om hvad der var i vente, men i dag har producer Joe Neate luftet planerne for de kommende måneders søfart i Sea of Thieves. 
Det er dog langtfra nok, eller er du helt uenig. Læs lidt mere herunder og se dagens udvikler-opdatering fra Rare selv herover. 
Our first content update, The Hungering Deep, will release in May and bring with it a new AI threat to the world. Crews will have to work together to discover and defeat this threat as part of a unique event. We will also be introducing a number of new mechanics to assist players on this adventure, and there will be unique rewards that players can earn as part of this event. Beyond this, we will begin our weekly events programme during May, where we introduce new mechanics and give players fun new ways to play with weekly events and rewards. 
In the summer months, we’ll debut two more content updates with Cursed Sails, which will include a new ship type, and Forsaken Shores, which will introduce players to a perilous new part of the world to explore. Similarly to The Hungering Deep, both of these updates will also include new gameplay mechanics for players, new AI threats to challenge and new unique rewards to claim. 
As we’ve always said, we never wanted to do anything to separate our players, so we’re pleased to confirm that all content updates will be available to all our players, at no additional cost. 
With Sea of Thieves being a game that grows and evolves, we’ll be listening to you, our community, throughout. As such, we’ll always be looking at whether our current plans are meeting your needs. Based on feedback since launch, we have changed the priorities for both Pets and Ship Captaincy which we had previously announced as things we would look to add in the few months after launch. These are on the back burner for now whilst we add to the game in other areas. Expect our plans to continue to be fluid, but always with the goals listed above as our guiding principles. 
We are hugely excited to be beginning this phase of Sea of Thieves, and seeing where the adventure takes us. 
Cheers,