Rainbow Six Siege runder 30 mio. registrerede spillere Af 0 
Ubisofts Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege har nu rundet 30 mio. registrerede spillere. Det er 5 mio. yderligere siden december måned sidste år. 
Ubisoft havde næppe forestillet sig at Rainbow Six Siege ville kunne tiltrække 30 mio. spillere. Så sent som i december måned rundede det 25 mio. spillere og for en måned siden var det topscorer på Steam Charts . 
Ubisoft kan nu fejre de 30 mio. registrerede spillere og har gjort en lille video tilgængelig. 
DENMARK, COPENHAGEN, – April 12, 2018 – Today, Ubisoft® announced that Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six® Siege has surpassed 30 Million Registered Players across all platforms. Released in 2015, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six® Siege has become one of the most successful multiplayer shooter and continues to evolve In Year 3 with regular content updates from the launch of Operation Chimera, Outbreak, and slew of additional game updates. This year also saw a record 321,000 peak concurrent viewers tune into the 2018 Six Invitational, Rainbow Six Siege’s largest Major Esports championship to date, with more than 6.2 million hours watched across all channels throughout the event. 
“On behalf of the entire team, we wanted to thank every member of our diverse, global community for their support of our game. Our players are the most valuable element to our game. Over the last three years we have endeavored to create a solid community built on transparency as we grow and evolve the ever-expanding world of Rainbow Six Siege,” said Alexandre Remy, Brand Director, Rainbow Six Siege. “We are so tremendously honored to achieve this milestone, and we will continue to do everything we can to earn each and every new person that decides to play.” 
In line with this continued commitment to provide new qualitative content and seamlessly integrate members of its ever-growing community of players, Tom Clancy’s Rainbow® Six: Siege development team’s vision is to bring 100 operators to the game for the years to come. 
Year 3 has also brought significant shifts to Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Pro League, which is now composed of two Seasons, six months each, from June to November (Season and December to May (Season 9). Each Season being concluded by Season Finales, where the eight best teams of the Season – two per region: Asia-Pacific, Europe, Latin America and North America – compete for a prize pool. Each Year now also features two Majors, events where the most intense Tom Clancy’s Rainbow Six Siege action unfolds. In addition to the Six Invitational each February, a “Six Major” tournament will now take place in August. As a first edition, the Six Major Paris will therefore take place in Paris in August 2018. TAGS