Nationwide Lottery outcomes present strikes to ITV, fronted by Stephen Mulhern Nationwide Lottery outcomes present strikes to ITV, fronted by Stephen Mulhern April 13, 2018 Trending No Comments 
Picture copyright Getty Photos The Nationwide Lottery outcomes are to be broadcast on ITV for the primary time after greater than 20 years on the BBC. 
Stephen Mulhern will host the primary new-look present. It should final 90 seconds and will likely be proven in the course of the advert break of Saturday’s Britain’s Acquired Expertise. 
It is a return to primetime TV for the Lottery outcomes, which switched from BBC One to the BBC iPlayer in 2017. 
Camelot stated a spread of “well-known ITV personalities” would be a part of Mulhern in future editions. 
The draw itself will not be broadcast on ITV, however will likely be obtainable on the Nationwide Lottery’s YouTube channel. 
Camelot stated the present would have “completely different codecs all through the course of the yr”. 
Mulhern stated “all will likely be revealed” within the first advert break of Britain’s Acquired Expertise at 20:15 BST. He additionally hosts spin-off present Britain’s Acquired Extra Expertise. 
Camelot stated they wished to make the Nationwide Lottery “extra related and visual”. 
Hayley Stringfellow, its head of name advertising, stated: “Folks play The Nationwide Lottery to win life-changing prizes, however they generally overlook that additionally they elevate round £30m each week for UK good causes. 
“This partnership will ship a spread of thrilling and interesting methods to shine a lightweight on the distinction Nationwide Lottery gamers make to the UK.” 
Picture copyright Picture caption Stephen Mulhern, proper, additionally seems on Ant and Dec’s Saturday Night time Takeaway 
Camelot added that there can be “a spread of revolutionary wraparound ideas” highlighting the causes that profit from Nationwide Lottery funding across the UK. 
Outcomes will nonetheless be learn out on BBC One 4 nights per week. The reside outcomes present had been on BBC One from the primary attract 1994 till final yr. 
Comply with us on Fb , on Twitter @BBCNewsEnts , or on Instagram at bbcnewsents . When you have a narrative suggestion e-mail leisure.information@bbc.co.uk. Share this: 