A master’s degree in Computer sciences, Engineering or Batchelor Informatics. 
Personal Skills: Capable of working autonomously and in a team Excellent interpersonal & negotiation skills Excellent conceptual analysis skills (schema, graphs) Excellent planning & prioritization skills Strongly motivated to work with Business & IT Dynamic, pragmatic, diplomatic Someone who goes “all the way” in his/her work 
Business experience required: Min. 2 years of professional experience in analysis Min. 3 years Cobol DB2 / SQL MF experience 
Technical experience required: Analysis of the requirements of users and business Making the business analysis (global and detailed user requirements) for IT in function of these requirements Looking continuously for improvement of processes and applications Preparing and organising the users acceptance tests Taking the “service-after-delivery” for your account Assembling the necessary documentation for new or adapted processes and functionalities Informing the concerned parties in a structured and efficient way about the progress of the projects Microsoft Office tools (Word, Excel at least) Expert Knowledge of SQL. Very good knowledge of COBOL and JES2 
Functional experience required: Experience in BPM (Business Process Modelling Our Company 
Our Company is an independently owned ICT recruitment company, offering "no-cure, no-pay" contingency recruitment and retained search, from our offices in Brussels. Since opening our doors in 2015 we have recruited nationally and internationally across the Benelux, building up an enviable portfolio of clients and attracting ICT candidates of the highest calibre. Our main values are Excellence, Respect and Modesty. To represent and live those values you also have the following skills Entrepreneurship, Solution Oriented and Client Intimacy Team work, Social skills, Self-awareness and Communication skills Flexible and Adaptable 
Our Company, a local consulting and systems integration Group, We leverage a unique combination of technical, functional and industry specialization, as well as partnerships with all the key software vendors, to deliver maximum-value projects and help clients break through barriers to innovation such as Big Data and Digital Transformation. Located in 3 countries, Our Company currently employs +40 people in the Benelux. 
Our Company is a Belgian recruitment consultancy specialized in providing freelance IT staffing. Our Company's name reflects our commitment to you - a business partnership designed to make the best match between clients and talents. Our experienced recruitment consultants have an extensive knowledge in the IT field. They will work in close collaboration with you to provide you with the highest quality service. We at Our Company understand the needs and expectations of both our clients and talented IT professionals seeking contract work. We consider every assignment as unique and experience has taught us the importance of flexibility, in order to adapt to client's requirements in a rapidly evolving market trends. Through a dedicated and bespoke candidate service, Our Company works with you, to find the company/organization to match your career aspirations and talents. Our Offer We listen carefully to our external customers/ internal customers(employees/freelancer/contractor), identifying and responding to their needs. With a team of 40 (Antwerp, Gent, Brussels and Breda, Amsterdam) highly qualified specialists we develop and deliver reliable and innovative tailor-made solutions. Our Offer A family business where everybody counts! A challenging position in a fast-growing company with an international presence. A unique work environment: a modern green site in the heart of Belgium and Netherlands - easy parking Each employee receives 3 extra vacation days per annum, the so-called. Partner Discretion day (PDD). These days are usually granted in the week between Christmas and New Year’s Day. Young graduates/school leavers (see definition below) are also entitled to annual holidays, but need to follow another procedure to get paid for these days. The family friendly work schedule (FFWS) is an 85% part-time work schedule, with the 15% of the time you are not working being scheduled according to you own wishes & desires. In addition to the legal, extra-legal and public holidays, My Time gives you the opportunity to take a maximum of 20 extra days of leave with a limited amount of compensation. When you take advantage of My Time, instead of your normal salary you will receive a gross amount of EUR 35 per day of My Time leave. 12 ADV days a year. (You work 40 hours a week, in a system of 38 hours, CAO 218) High end technological solutions A dynamic culture focused on personal development. Responsibilities and challenges, openness and collaboration A stimulating working environment with a really good team spirit maintained by lots of internal events (teambuilding...). A unique corporate culture: access to all levels of management, listening, understanding, recognition and also time for fun Attractive salary package - the whole range of extra-legal benefits: Mobility package (Choice of: company car + fuel card, Bicycle, public transportation...) Insurance package: groups- and hospitalization insurance, Netto expenses of 250€ 