Overview Company Description PostBank Uganda Ltd is a financial institution owned by the government of Uganda and regulated by Bank of Uganda. The bank has its operations in over 30 branches spread across the country and 290 ATMs after joining Interswitch. Job Description 
The Group Lending Officer will mobilize, appraise, disburse, monitor and recover loans within their portfolio in line with the credit policies, procedures and set targets. Key Objectives Mobilize and sensitize customers about Bank loans and other Bank services/Products in line with set targets Form and engage groups in Credit acquisition Train group members Conduct loan appraisal exercise in line with the lending policy of the bank. Present loan application proposals to the loan committee for decision-making and give feedback to applicants in line with the lending policy and procedures of the Bank. Disburse approved loans according to the terms and conditions spelled out in the lending policies/procedures Monitor & evaluate loan performance in line with disbursement terms and conditions Initiate recovery actions for loans in default in line with loan policy guidelines and procedures. Required Knowledge, Education, Skills, and Abilities The applicant must hold a Bachelor’s degree in Education, Microfinance is desirable. Candidates MUST have a Credit in Math and English at O’ Level The ideal candidate should be highly motivated, self-driven and eager to learn. He/she must have excellent interpersonal and communication skills. Computer literacy and familiarity with the Microsoft applications Should be fluent in commonly used local languages and should be willing to work at any of our branches where we have operations Candidates in the teaching profession are encouraged to apply Age: Between 22 – 30 years How to Apply: All candidates should send the following to the address below; Detailed and updated CV Certified copies of certificates and testimonials Applicant’s address and daytime telephone contact Postal/ email address and daytime telephone contact of three referees of good standing in society. The Head Human Resources, PostBank Uganda Limited, Plot 4/6 Nkrumah Read, P.O. Box 7189 Kampala (U) Deadline: 20 th April 2018 