Safety 
The C-segment is suffering from the rise of SUVs. In order to keep customers interested in compact hatchbacks and estates, volume brands are trying to move upmarket, wooing prospective buyers with near-premium and hi-tech features. The VW Golf and the Peugeot 308 are perfect examples of this evolution, and now Ford is following their lead with the latest Focus. No true innovator, but a real charmer 
Luxury and refinement have found their way into the DNA of Ford’s popular hatchback model. Just like the Mondeo and other Ford models, you can now opt for a posh Vignale trim, which should lift the Focus to BMW 1 Series, Mercedes A Class and Audi A3 level. Also adding to the premium look & feel is the rotary switch for the automatic transmission – indeed, like in most Jaguars and Land Rovers. 
The wheelbase has grown, which is good news for the rear legroom. Ford claims to set a new standard in the C-segment in this respect. Compared to its predecessor, the new Focus loses half of its dashboard buttons thanks to the adoption the SYNC3 infotainment system. Ford wants its latest model to inspire sportiness on the outside, but peace and quiet on the inside. Efficient ICEs, but no hybrids 
Ford has built a reputation as an engine builder, not least thanks to the award-winning 1.0 EcoBoost. This remains the entry-level petrol engine and comes in three power outputs: 85, 100 and 125 PS. For more power, torque and cylinders, customers can opt for the 1.5 EcoBoost, which comes in two flavours: 150 and 175 PS. 
The diesel range comprises a brand-new 1.5 block with either 95 or 120 PS, and a 175 PS strong 2-litre. Both are four cylinders, incidentally. Ford claims that it has increased fuel efficiency by 11 percent thanks to improved aerodynamics, including a closing radiator grille, a better air flow around the wheels and less drag underneath the car. Ford apparently has no intention to offer electrified powertrains: there is no mention of a hybrid or electric model in the press kit. Focus Active: for the urban jungle 
Ford offers Focus customers a choice of three versions: next to the conventional 5-door hatchback and the fleet-favourite estate, there is a “cross country” derivative called Active. The latter is based on the hatch, the ride height of which is raised by 30 mm, whereas its body gains a few SUV-inspired addenda such as black wheel arch protection, front and rear skid plates and lower body panels in a contrasting silver. 
Not that the Focus Active has any real off-road ambitions, but at least these styling cues provide extra protection in the urban jungle. And so do the pop-out door protection strips – indeed, like on the Skoda Kodiaq. To make city life even more stress-free, the Focus (all body types) can now be had with Stop & Go technology plus Active Park Assist 2, which does the entire parking job on its own. 
Picture copyright: Ford, 2018 