Automotive Fleet 
In the United States, the AAA Foundation's 2017 Traffic Safety Culture Index has found that just over a third of drivers say they have typed a text message or email while driving, even though virtually all of them (95.6%) believe that this is unacceptable behaviour. 
As reported by Automotive News, in addition to this, most drivers (nearly 88%) said that distracted drivers are a bigger problem today than in pervious years, and distracted driving ranks as the top issue of growing concern among those surveyed. 
The survey explores driver attitudes and behaviors to safety issues ranging from speeding and seat belt usage to distracted, drowsy and impaired driving. Data was collected from a sample of 2,613 licensed drivers aged 16 and over, who said they have driven in the past month. 
Overall, the website goes on to say,the survey findings conclude that while drivers desire a safer driving experience, they continue to engage in behaviour which they themselves recognize as unsafe. 
In fact, most drivers (89.3%) reported engaging in at least one of the risky behaviors examined in the survey at least once in the past 30 days. For example, while 92% said that driving through a red light when they could have stopped is unacceptable, 43% admitted to doing so. 
Other key findings from the survey include: In the past month, some 60.5% of drivers talked on a hands-free cellphone while 49.1% talked on a hand-held cellphone and almost 45% of drivers admitted to reading a text or email while behind the wheel. 
While only 40.9% of those surveyed support a ban on all cellphone use while driving, the majority (87.6%) support legislation against all texting and emailing, and 73.4% support a ban on handheld cellphone use while driving. 
Moving on to another key concern in terms of driving in a manner which is unsafe, the majority of drivers (94.3%) consider driving after drinking alcohol a serious threat to their safety. Yet 20.7% admitted to driving when they thought they had consumed too much alcohol to drive safely. There is very strong support (nearly 80%) for requiring all DWI offenders to use alcohol-ignition interlocks on their vehicles, even for first time offenders. 
(Image: channel4.com) 