Petition 'Get rid of Fortnite' emerges online It has garnered thousands of signatures. Text: Petter Hegevall Published on the 14th of Apr 2018 at 15 
Epic Games' Fortnite: Battle Royale has taken the world by storm, encouraging players to survive whether it be alone, with a friend, or with three friends in a squad. Not everyone is happy with the craze though, as petitioner Chloe DePalma has taken to Change.org to set up a petition to get rid of it, saying: "It's taking over our boyfriends' lives and brainwashing them." 
At the time of writing the petition "Get Rid of Fortnite" has gathered over 2,200 signatures, but not all is as it seems, as the creators have since posted the following message: 
"Okay so I see this blew up. It was originally made as a joke and initially I hated Fortnite but I started playing It and it's actually kinda fun. Me and my friend were just joking and we hoped people would notice, but I see how the game can take away from family time and it is a problem in that sense. I also see how mothers get annoyed and wives/girlfriends when their significant others ignore them for It. Regardless we never knew this would blow up so big. It was initially a joke but it seems to be a rising issue within families because everyone has been so addicted to it." 
"The game has caused quite an uproar with a lot of women and I definitely see how. We made this petition 2 months ago and totally forgot about it. I hope nobody gets too upset over this petition (we might leave it up because it got very noticed from many websites and news articles and it seems it's actually a serious problem from when it was made 2 months prior). This is my last edit of this petition. I hope you all aren't too upset from what It was originally." 
While the idea started as a joke, the game has garnered a lot of attention in the media for its influence on people, especially children, with some finding themselves engrossed and perhaps even addicted to the game. It's fair to say, then, that this joke struck a chord with a lot of people, and you'll only need to peruse the petition's comments to see that. 
Do you think Fortnite is a problem? If so, how? Related texts