Cambodia Day Scenes – Sept 2016 by admin on Apr 14, 2018 Cambodia Day Scenes – Sept 2016 Rate this post 
Cambodia Day Scenes – Sept 2016 
Some day scenes from my recent visa run to Phnom Penh, Cambodia. 
For more info from my Cambodia trip see: http://bangkok112.com/phnom-penh-visa-run-part-1/ 
Parts of this video include: 0:04 Intro 0:13 Just came out of the Candy Bar at 5,27am (note the big rat crossing the street) 0:28 Riverfront pre sunrise scenes 2:15 Sad scene of what looked to be a mother and baby living on the streets 4:34 Sunrise 5:23 Street 136 just after 6am 6:55 $1 mototaxi back to Okay Boutique hotel 9:46 Some early morning shots from the floor of my hotel 
Additional Notes: 
I’d been drinking all night long, and as I randomly staggered out of the Candy Bar at nearly half five in the AM I saw the faint glimmers of what looked to be a cracking sunrise. 
I’d pretty much drank myself sober on the local draught beer and decided to relax on the riverfront watching the sunrise. 
It was generally pleasant, people were doing their morning exercises and getting a head start on the day. 
I always want to photograph and film more of the beggars and poor people of Cambodia, but good footage is often elusive and often I’ve had demands of ‚$5 for photo‘ coming my way. 
The scene of a crying baby boy and his napping mother came up, so I fired away and recorded the scene. I think they were homeless as the boy had only an oversize jacket on and was eventually washed in the river. 
Regarding how to help the poor people and beggars of Cambodia, it’s hard to know where to start. If you give money directly they normally only receive a fraction of what’s given as the local tuk tuk mafia are often their bosses. 
If you give to a charity then often on a very small percentage will reach your intended benefactors. 
By receiving monetary handouts, it only reinforces the tragic life they lead and often it’s almost impossible to break the cycle. What’s needed is a sustainable plan to help these people into real jobs to give them a realistic chance of successfully leaving the life of begging. 
If you do give, food is much better than money. I once gave fruit to some Cambodian street kids and was shocked at how fast they devoured the offerings. 
Ultimately, it’s up to the Cambodian people to help each other. In the past there have been missed opportunities with fake orphanages set up to extract as much money from tourists as possible. A shame. 
The Cambodian government doesn’t have welfare (not many do in SEA) so with the increasing investment coming into the country, you would think that the trickle down effect would eventually help out some of the people living on the street. But It’s often not as simple as that. 
Anyway, this is turning into a ramble so I’ll leave it at ‚give food, not money.‘ 
Thanks for watching and subscribe for more videos. 
Music: 