Beyonce stages surprise Destiny’s Child reunion 
By Alix Culbertson, News Reporter 
Pop superstar Beyonce has reunited Destiny's Child for a surprise performance. 
Queen Bey made a spectacular return to the stage to headline Coachella festival's second night on Saturday, ending a year-long hiatus from live music after giving birth to twins. 
And as if her two-hour action-packed performance boasting about 100 backing dancers and musicians was not enough, her former bandmates Kelly Rowland and Michelle Williams joined her much to the delight of her fans. 
In front of about 100,000 people in the southern California desert, they reunited for the night to perform three of their songs, including one of their most famous, Say My Name. Image: The iconic silhouette of Destiny's Child got the Coachella crowd screaming. Pic: Kelly Rowland/Instagram 
The crowd were beside themselves as the iconic silhouette of the trio appeared on the stage and they strutted out singing Lose My Breath followed by Say My Name and Soldier. 
Destiny's Child disbanded afer nearly 10 years in 2006 when they all embarked on solo careers, but have reunited a handful of times for one-off performances. 
Before last night they last performed together in 2015 at the Stellar Awards where they sang Say Yes. Image: Michelle Williams posted this picture 
Ranked by Billboard magazine as one of the greatest musical trios of all time, they have sold more than 60 million records worldwide. They were nominated for 14 Grammy Awards – winning twice for best R&B group performance and best R&B song. 
And if the screams from the Coachella crowd were anything to go by, they have not lost their touch. 
Beyonce referred to her bandmates as her "sisters" and was also joined on stage by her real sister, singer Solange Knowles. 
Her rapstar husband Jay Z helped complete a star-studded band of friends and family appearing on stage with her. Image: Destiny's Child in 2001 posing with their Grammys 
Beyonce's show was themed around "homecoming", complete with a brass band and string players on American high school-style bleachers. More from World UK, US and France bid for ceasefire in Syria after airstrikes LIVE: Putin warns more strikes would spark 'chaos' Assad 'may be Russia's ally but he is also a liability' Response to Syria strikes suggests US and Russia lack hunger for fight Air China plane diverts after fountain pen hostage drama Saudi king attacks Trump over Israel embassy move 
She paid tribute to historically black colleges and universities and performed Lift Every Voice and Sing, known as the unofficial national black anthem. 
One of the world's best ever selling artists voiced her pride in being the first black woman to ever headline Coachella, making her one of the few women to top the bill of any major festival. Entertainment Blackwood ’emotional’ filming last EastEnders scene 
Richard Blackwood has said that shooting his final scene as Vincent Hubbard on EastEnders was "emotional" and promises fans that his exit will be "amazing". 
The actor was announced to have joined the BBC soap in January 2015 and made his debut the following month during the show's 30th anniversary live week. 
Having starred as Vincent for three years, it was revealed last month that he would be departing his role in the soap. Richard Blackwood talks about shooting final scenes as EastEnders' Vincent Hubbard 
During an appearance on Channel 4's Sunday Brunch, Blackwood said that he and the cast have "nailed it" for his final scenes. 
"It's amazing, I'm not going to lie," he said. 
"It was quite emotional when we shot the final scene, and literally… because everybody I worked with in my final scene is who I also started with, so there was hugging and a bit of tears. 
"But trust me, we made sure that we nailed it so that the audience are speaking about it thereafter." 
He added: "I've been very lucky with EastEnders. I've always wanted to do acting, and EastEnders, working with the likes of Tameka [Empson], who I love… 
"It's been such an acting class, and everybody theres is like such a family unit. Everybody there… I'm going to miss it." 
Blackwood's final scenes on EastEnders are reportedly due to air on Friday, April 20. 
EastEnders airs on Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday on RTÉ One and BBC One. 
For more soap news and spoilers, click here. Entertainment How to Watch Porn With Your Partner 
Porn is great. It's a solid solo activity that helps you enhance your fantasy life. Yet, many of us want to include our partners in the fun but aren't sure how. 
In theory, watching porn with your partner is an easy, cheap way to really spice things up betwixt the sheets. It may seem a little intimidating at first, but it is just a movie. Porn isn't cheating, and it certainly isn't a reflection of the quality of your sex life. 
Actually, studies have shown that couples who watch porn have healthier sex lives. See? It's not even us; it's science. How do you even have that conversation with the person you're dating? It's a touchy subject. The last thing you want is to make your partner feel inadequate or offended. 
ADVERTISEMENT 
Here is how to watch porn with your partner, because we all know making it happen is the hardest part of all. Have a conversation before you pop on the video 
You know what your partner will not love? Going into the bedroom looking to get some action, only to be met with an unexpected bondage video on RedTube. Watching porn is an acquired taste, and not everyone is trying to have a lick. So, before you go pulling any surprises on your boo, have a conversation. 
You need to make sure this is something you are both down to try before you go forth and get freaky with your flicks. If you do something that freaks your partner out, they are not going to want to have sex with you at all. This is a no-win situation. 
You do not have to stage some grand event for the porno chat. Ask your partner what some of his or her fantasies are and then share yours. Make the conversation about both of you, rather than just your desires. If you express that watching porn together is a way to spice things up and bring you closer, you'll up your chances of inspiring enthusiasm. Find something you're both into 
Are you into leather and gang bangs? That is fabulous, but maybe your partner is not into that. When you're watching porn with someone else, you have to take their tastes into consideration. 
Instead of throwing on your favorite videos and hoping for the best, browse together. Find something new. It will show your partner that you care about what he or she likes. This will make the experience less scary if he or she hasn't watched porn with someone (or anyone) before. 
Encourage your partner to choose something he or she thinks they might find hot. The exploration is part of the foreplay and it will help get you both in the mood for the main attraction (read: the sex). Set boundaries 
Before you start anything, remember that clear boundaries need to be set up. I know it may seem silly; porn is just a video, right? Wrong. 
People have very strong feelings about pornography. It can turn you on like radio, or it can shut you down faster than a startup without funding. 
However unlikely, be aware that your partner may have an intense negative reaction to whatever it is you're watching. Do not ignore signs of discomfort. Check in from time to time. Let your partner know that he or she doesn't have to watch it if it's making him or her feel gross. 
If your partner is feeling awkward or uncomfortable (or angry), turn off the porn. It's great that you're spicing things up and being adventurous, but you do not want to push someone past their boundaries when this is all new. 
The porn isn't going anywhere. If you need to take a break and try again later, it's not the end of the world. Props for giving it a go. For many people, porn takes getting used to. Patience on both your ends is required. Remember that watching porn together is actually healthy 
Despite what many a past study will tell you of the dangers of pornography, you're not some depraved soul in need of redemption because you like smut. If porn were so incredibly bad, wouldn't we be dumping our partners to hide in our basements and whack off all day long? 
Get real. 
In fact, according to a study in the journal Current Sexual Health Reports , porn is not addictive at all — the research that has been done on porn is highly flawed and inconclusive. The researchers in the study actually found that men who watch porn report a higher level of satisfaction with their sex lives. 
Porn is a safe and healthy way to explore your sexuality, and viewing it with your partner can bring the two of you closer together. As with all things, use porn in moderation. If your porn consumption is negatively affecting your real relationship, you should probably consider scaling back. 
If you're looking to try something new and want to include your partner in a sexy thing you enjoy while living your best life, you do you. 
Image Source: StockSnap / Freestocks.org Entertainment This Military Couple Celebrated Their Anniversary With the Sweetest Photo Shoot 
By how in love they look, you'd think this military couple are engaged and in the honeymoon phase – but they are actually married with three kids! Before heading to Texas, where Richard would begin training, he and his wife, Andrea, celebrated their anniversary with an adorable retro shoot at the Pensacola Naval Aviation Museum. The plane Richard will eventually fly is the C-130, and this photo session was the first time he had ever gone inside of one. Even though it was almost 110 degrees, taking a couple pictures in the cockpit was a must. 
See their sweet photos! 