Driver cleared of charges over death of friend at Summernats 
Email Summernats death: Queensland man cleared of charges relating to death of Luke Newsome By Elizabeth Byrne 
Updated April 16, 2018 12:15:53 
Photo: Mr Newsome died in hospital after falling off the accused's truck at Summernats. (Facebook ) Related Story: 'Stuff up' led to Summernats death, trial hears Map: Canberra 2600 
Bundaberg man Alister Spong hugged his wife in a long embrace after a jury cleared him over the death of his friend at Canberra's Summernats Car festival last year. 
Mr Spong, 33, was charged with culpable driving causing death in the ACT Supreme Court. 
His friend Luke Newsome was travelling on the back of a 1942 utility truck with several others when he fell off, suffering fatal head injuries. 
Mr Newsome died in hospital the next day. 
Mr Spong had told the court he was attempting what is known as a "chirpee," or a short wheel spin, while driving in first gear on the cruise track at Summernats. 
Instead of spinning, the wheels bit the bitumen and the truck lurched forward, throwing Mr Newsome and another man to the ground. 
Mr Spong told the court he was devastated by the death of his friend. 
Photo: Mr Spong did not comment on the jury's decision as he left the ACT Supreme Court. (ABC News) 
Prosecutor Margaret Jones told the jury there was no doubt Mr Spong was guilty of culpable driving. 
She said there were five people on the back, and he was responsible for their safety. 
"There was no warning and he did not look around to see where everyone was," she said. 
"It was improper driving that put other people in harm's way and it had tragic consequences. 
"It was not an accident. It was intentional and deliberate driving." 
But Mr Spong's lawyer Steve Whybrow told the jury it was a momentary lapse. 
"This is a man who was not driving like a ratbag," she said. 
"He consciously tried to spin the wheels like he'd done many times before. 
"It was not a risk from his perspective." 
The jury retired on Friday and resumed this morning. 
But after only 15 minutes a verdict was reached. 
In an unusual move, the jury used its discretion to also find Mr Spong not guilty of an alternative charge of negligent driving, even though he admitted to the charge — meaning he walked free. 
Following the death, festival organisers banned riding on the back of utes, which was previously rife at the event. 
Topics: crime, law-crime-and-justice, motor-sports, sport, canberra-2600, act, australia 
First posted April 16, 2018 11:39:46 
More stories from Australian Capital Territory Sports Davy Russell: ‘I had to take some of the blame myself’ 
Grand National-winning jockey Davy Russell says he "had to start afresh" after his sacking by Gigginstown stud owner Michael O'Leary but that he accepts his share of responsibility for a parting of ways that has proven no obstacle to further success together. 
Despite losing his retained rider status in December 2013, Russell has continued to ride some of the Ryanair supremo's biggest horses. He won the Gold Cup on Lord Windemere and added the Grand National to his glittering CV with victory on Tiger Roll last Saturday. 
Russell's successor Bryan Cooper was subsequently removed as number one rider last summer as the operation decided to allocate the maroon and white silks on a case-by-case basis. 
"Michael is a great man. He's a very important part of the sport," Russell told RTÉ Sport's Darren Frehill. 
"It's just one of those things (the dismissal). There were two reasons for it. I had to take some of the blame myself as well for that. 
"It was as much to do with me as it did anything else so I just had to change things and start afresh. 
"Luckily enough, Michael accepted that I was sill capable of riding horses and he was happy to put me back up on some of them." 
Russell piloted 10/1 shot Tiger Roll to glory at Aintree last weekend but it took a photo finish to confirm that he had held off the late charge of the Willie Mullins-trained Pleasant Company. 
The Youghal man admits he thought he might have been caught, 
"I wasn't sure because you'd be hoping you wouldn't see as much of the other horse from the corner of your eye," he said. 
"I thought I was going to go ahead and win comfortably enough. Just the last 150-yards he started to tie up. He got a bit lonely out in front. 
"I knew there was something coming, I didn't know what it was. 
"I saw an awful lot of the other horse. Usually, you don't see as much of them as they go by you. Unless you're beaten. 
"I thought I saw too much of him because he came back at me after the race." Pat Smullen 
In the aftermath of the race, Russell dedicated the win to friend Pat Smullen, the multiple Irish Flat Champion Jockey, who is believed to be battling cancer. 
"He's going through a tough time at the moment, (it was) just to let him know that we're all thinking of him," said Russell. 
"He's a great man, a great role-model for our sport. 
"We're all behind him all the way. He's got a difficult journey ahead of him but i's nothing he hasn't faced before." 
Russell also paid tribute to his late mother Phyllis, who passed away last month. 
"She's always in my thoughts," he said. "She was a great woman and we're always thinking of her. 
"It's a pity that she's not here to enjoy it with us all. 
"The Grand National touches a world of people, and everyone who was ever involved with me in my career, hopefully they can feel a bit of it as well." 
Russell will be confirmed Irish Champion Jockey for the third time, following the season finale at Punchestown later this month. 
In the absence of the injured Ruby Walsh, he has streaked cleared and nearest challenger Paul Townend is a full 40 wins behind. 
"Usually this time of year is very intense. It can be quite tight in the championship," said Russell. 
"I've won it twice before but I haven't gone to Punchestown being clear winner, Ruby was always snapping at my heels. 
"It's great to go there and not have that pressure." Sports Evans to return to action after year-long doping ban 
Britain's Dan Evans is set to make his comeback from a one-year doping ban at the Glasgow Trophy ATP Challenger event in April. 
The 27-year-old, who tested positive for cocaine last April, has been handed a wildcard into the qualifying draw for the tournament, which starts at Scotstoun Leisure Centre on April 28. 
Evans said: "I want to thank everyone who has supported me throughout this difficult period. I have learned a lot about myself in my time away from the game, a sport that I love very dearly. 
"I am now committed to training hard, resuming my career and getting back to where I was, although appreciate this will take time. If there is a lesson to be learned here it's that it is every athlete's responsibility for what they put into their bodies. 
"I am grateful to those who have stood by me, the fans and the LTA for the opportunity to compete again. 
LTA performance director Simon Timson said: "The LTA condemns any form of doping, which has no place in our sport. 
"We have been having regular contact with Dan and he has shown genuine commitment to getting his tennis career back on track. 
"We have provided a structured programme of sports science and medicine support to help his journey since Dan became eligible again. He has passed our agreed checks over the last six weeks and it is on this basis we have agreed to provide him with a place in the qualifying tournament for the upcoming ATP Challenger event in Scotstoun from April 28. 
"Dan has reflected on his experience over the last year, and has begun to support the development of the LTA's anti-doping education materials to help emerging young players avoid similar mistakes. 
"Our continued support will be entirely dependent on a non-negotiable commitment to ongoing monitoring." Sports Kevin de Bruyne Reveals Who He Would Choose for PFA Player of the Year Award if He Was Allowed 
Kevin De Bruyne believes Mohamed Salah should, and indeed will pick up the PFA Player of the Year award this season – but admitted that he would prefer to vote for one of his Manchester City teammates. 
Both players have enjoyed scintillating campaigns and have been instrumental in their respective side's success, with the Belgian's overall contribution helping to fire the Citizens to the Premier League title, while the Egyptian ace's goals have been pivotal in the Reds' Champions League campaign this year. 
Mohamed Salah in 2017/18 for Liverpool 👏👏👏#UCL pic.twitter.com/qx8c22OGTf 
— UEFA Champions League (@ChampionsLeague) April 16, 2018 
However, amid what looks a two-horse race for the accolade, the 26-year-old revealed to NBC Sports he believes it is the Anfield man who should be the one crowned for his incredible term. 
"Yeah, I think if you can choose nobody from our team, I think he [Salah] deserves it", De Buryne said. Probably he's going to win it anyway. 
"He's been remarkable and to compete with somebody that's scored that many goals, you're not going to win. I'm very satisfied with my performances this year, with the team." 
Unbelievable season for us. Very happy to call us champions this year pic.twitter.com/Ulvw5zQyaa 
— Kevin De Bruyne (@DeBruyneKev) April 15, 2018 
(You may also like: 5 Key Results That Confirmed Man City As England's Best & Helped Secure the Premier League Title) 
David Silva, Leroy Sane, David De Gea and Harry Kane have also been nominated for the award, but with players not allowed to vote for themselves or team-mates, De Bruyne's options are limited. 
However, the World Cup-bound attacker insisted that if he were permitted to do so, Silva, whose son was born prematurely in December, would get his vote. 
"For me, I think if I could vote personally, I would vote for David", he added. "The situation he had this year with his little son and been always away, no training, and performed the way he did, it's been incredible. But if Salah gets it, he deserves it as well." 
My 3rd league but this one is the most special.Thanks to everyone for supporting me in this tough year!🏆🏆🏆 pic.twitter.com/kKslE189uu 
— David Silva (@21LVA) April 15, 2018 
De Bruyne has had the chance to see his Egyptian counterpart up close and personal on four occasions this term, with City coming out on the losing end in three of them. 
However, the 26-year-old told believes the trio of defeats at the hands of the Reds, alongside Manchester United's shock derby day comeback earlier this month, will not define Manchester City's season. 
"The Liverpool game away was a little bit [50-50], but I think the way we played against United and Liverpool at home showed that we performed well", he concluded. 
"I think in those games we deserve to win, but we didn’t. That’s football; you have to pick yourself up and be confident. 
The season’s been unbelievable, and these three games aren’t going to define our season. 