CCP Games afslører den næste EVE Online udvidelse EVE Online fylder 15 år den 6. maj. Af 0 
Allerede i næste måned er islandske CCP Games klar med den næste EVE Online udvidelse, Into the Abyss. Udvidelsen er gratis for både abonnenter og free-to-play spillerne. 
Into the Abyss byder på nye omgivelser i form af Abyssal Deadspace og en ny mystisk fjende, Triglavian Collective. EVE Online fejrer 15 års fødselsdag i år (6. maj) og CCP Games har på den baggrund lavet en lille video, som du kan se herover. EVE Fanfest har netop været afholdt i Reykjavík. 
14 April 2018 – Reykjavik, Iceland – Today at EVE Fanfest, CCP announced ‘Into the Abyss,’ the newest expansion for EVE Online, their deep and uniquely player-driven spaceship MMO game. Launching in May 2018, EVE Online: Into the Abyss will be delivered as a free update to all players, both for those with subscriptions and those playing for free. 
EVE Online: Into the Abyss injects ground-breaking, transformative gameplay into EVE Online and presents a new adventure for players, inviting them to explore dangerous uncharted territory with strange new inhabitants and potentially vast rewards. This content will be just as unfamiliar to veteran EVE players as it is to novice players entering the game today. 
‘Into the Abyss’ adds exciting exploration and survival gameplay in the form of Abyssal Deadspace, a brand new hostile environment filled with hazardous environmental effects and mysterious adversaries, the Triglavian Collective. Players can enter pockets of Abyssal Deadspace from almost anywhere in New Eden. On entry, players fight and explore their way through a series of unpredictable encounters, using their skills to take on growing risks in the hope of coming out the other side with high value cargo. 
Players will be searching for the new mutaplasmids, only found in Abyssal Deadspace. Mutaplasmids can be combined with existing modules to transform them into Abyssal modules, potentially increasing their power vastly or breaking them beyond repair. However, the challenges that players confront become more difficult the deeper they venture into Abyssal Deadspace… and failure means death. Faced with increasing danger from perilous encounters; do you continue and risk your spaceship in the hope of finding greater riches, or return home to exploit your rewards? 
Celebrating its 15th anniversary in May, EVE Online is the world’s most renowned videogame sandbox, with a rich history of compelling stories, battles, triumph and defeat. Players have near limitless ability to create their own destiny in the context of hundreds of thousands of capsuleers worldwide, choosing their own unique way to live amongst the stars, wage war, broker deals, harvest resources, gain and lose territory and all the adventures in-between. TAGS