Dist: 31,2 km Start: 09:10 End: 15:15 
I forgot to mention yesterday’s evenings outstanding friendly reception by state park ranger RJ – he was informed by his boss (no idea where the boss got the information from..) that I’d be arriving at his state park these days – and he just came down to welcome me and to exceptionally allow me (and Josh) to camp in the “day use area”…thanks so much for this generosity! We behaved nicely… 
I checked on Jos’s gear already yesterday evening, but as it was late, and I was tired from 55 km paddling, I didn’t get through everything. John agreed to meet us at 8 am to paddle ot with us at least to South Cove at Cape Arago, which I appreciated. Josh brought many drybags, but rather of the stiff sort which were hard to fit into the hatches. We had to leave a few in John’s van, and also some of the two week’s supplies to make it fit. When Josh was happily afloat in his (my spare…) kayak in the shallow calm water of the bay, we noticed the rudder was not fully responding, and it was a lose screw which screwed the whole thing up…maybe this has already been the issue when José was launching somewhat unluckily in Cape Kiwanda? Can’t believe it, but maybe it was me not having tightened those screws fully? The heck, I have taken this rudder apart already hundreds of times…but who knows. We tightened everything nicely, and Josh went for a few test rolls, braces and scullings, and paddled in circles with his new kayak and my spare wing paddle. All looked fine, and with his solid white water background, I felt all right to take this strong 28-year old out on the today’s somewhat calm open ocean. 
John was guiding us nicely in sunny weather through the wide reef at Capa Arago, sea lions and seals all around in a wonderful cliff area. We briefly landed on South Cove to check if everyone felt well, and John turned back to his van. Josh and I kept on paddling, all good! The swell was low, but one could feel it! Halfway between South Cove and Coquille River, just at Fivemile Point, Josh decided he felt the swell way too much and couldn’t fight his sea sickness any more…but as I have experienced puking on the open ocean dozens of times myself before, he was just fine after emptying his stomach. Bright sunshine, heat in his new dry suit, a too tight neck gasket, a new kayak with for now also a bit too short footrests, and having been off the ocean for a while were the bits to play together. We didn’t need to land at Fivemile Point which looked well doable in today’s sea conditions, but kept on pushing to Coquille Rivermouth in a decent pace. Josh even started to enjoy surfing the low swell waves a bit! All good. 
Getting inside the river mouth was no big deal, we filled out water bags in the small harbor in anticipation of maybe having three weather days around Cape Blanco on the beach off. But checking the fore cast, it rather looks like the wind turns south already at 10 am, and breezing up pretty quick pretty nasty. This wouldn’t get us anywhere to land safely on tomorrow’s 1,60 m swell..so we decided even Wednesday is already off…four days in a row…but that’s like it is! 
We made camp already before, and called after this decision for John’s help, who agreed to host us the next weather days off. Wonderful to have so many friends along the way! Four days on the beach would be nasty anywhere, and especially here, as we had a visit from a park manager Schoeppner, who was so friendly to allow us to stay this night in also an official “day use area” (which we didn’t know of in this case), but he couldn’t agree on any more nights to stay. All good, thanks! John will pick us up tomorrow before noon. Thanks, John! I will take my time to do a lot of office work to prepare upcoming stretches.