Acc: Magowan family’s house Dist: 26,0 km Start: 07:00 End: 12:20 
I had a good, but as usual way too short good night’s rest, without the need to drink some Heineken beer in the evening…I felt rather well protected! 
I launched into a easy to time dumper, and for the good luck of the day, I paddled through one of the easy accessible arches to the right side of the beach. Offshore, conditions were lower than yesterday, and got even better by the hour, with the swell much longer, and less high, and winds lower. All good! The whole coastline was impressing steep and rugged, the coastal road dug into the mountain walls like a long scar, interrupted by high bridges with sandy beaches. But no real shelter on those to land, and how would I get up there if I like a pickup? 
The plan was either to land at Point Sur, or Pfeiffer Beach. Both of them I could have reached easy, but I opted for the shorter paddle, as I am still exhausted and getting not enough sleep. 
Point Sur with it’s lighthouse high up on a huge cliff looked very impressive to me, but I better concentrated on the sea…it was not dead calm any more around the cliff! I took a few shots, but aimed to be around the corner to find the sheltered landing beach very soon. Landing was fine through a moderate dumper, and I unloaded, had a quick shower and dried things out. My pickup was supposed to arrive in an hour, and I started to shift my gear up the the small dirt road where I spotted some cars. 
My assumption the car park must be public as I saw a group of people in yellow jackets, and the dirt road up to the car park would be easy accessible was wrong…a friendly yellow dressed guy named John, volunteer park ranger since 20 years, came up to me and explained to me I was also not supposed to be here…he was just coaching and guiding some new volunteer rangers, not open for public access today at all. 
John was helpful to get my gear and kayak up to the road, and was also opening the gate for Merrill and Annaliesa to drive up to the bottom of the lighthouse to load kayak and gear. Thanks for that, John! It would have been a long haul, and also we would have to climb over two gates…and I obviously once more did not recognize I was landing on another “park”…this time a Historic State Park…sorry! There are not that many halfway sheltere landing spots around here… 
Thanks to Merrill and his girlfriend Annaliesa to volunteer to pick me from the beach! Merrill is also keen to join me paddling for a bit, but I was not sure what to expect, as we haven’t had the chance to chat and text much. I was skeptical about his paddling background, but the more we were talking, the better I got to know him and understood his already quite broad experience! He is a friendly, easy going tall strong young lad of 24, with a widespread variation of paddling and ocean experience. See how far we get until I have to do my talk in San Francisco on Monday night!. 
We drove to his parent’s house in Halfmoon Bay, thanks to Runa to make a nice dinner, and to find still a space for me to sleep with so many house guests in already! Merrill packed his gear, and I was happy to have another paddling partner by my side the next week.