Iron Harvest is a huge success on Kickstarter It would seem gamers are craving a new RTS. Text: Suzanne Berget Published on the 17th of Apr 2018 at 11 
Crowdfunding has always been a bit of a mixed bag for video games - sometimes games are funded within days, like Myst's anniversary edition , sometimes games don't collect anywhere near what they need and sometimes people keep funding a game for all eternity and it never gets completed... we're looking at you Star Citizen . 
Giving a game your money on Kickstarter is no guarantee it will be made even if it reaches its funding target, or if it is made, that it'll live up to expectations. This has, naturally, made people weary, something King Art was very aware of and worried about when they put their game, the alternative 1920s RTS Iron Harvest , on Kickstarter. 
Turns out they didn't have to worry. In just five weeks their campaign collected over $1,530,000 ($1,298,726 on Kickstarter [target: $450,000] plus an additional $232,261 via KING Art's own store). 
"It has been a risk to ask for so much money for a new IP on Kickstarter in this day in age. But we knew we had a strong product and a sizable RTS community yearning for the next big RTS. So we took a chance and couldn't be happier. For us, this success is an obligation to make Iron Harvest the best game it can be", says Jan Theysen, Creative Director at indie developer King Art Games. 
Iron Harvest is set in an alternate reality in the 1920s where three factions are vying for control, the Saxony, Polania, and Rusviet empires. The world is developed by Polish artist Jakub Różalski and the game is a fast-paced strategy game with heroes giant mechs, and destructible environments. It will land on PC, PS4, and Xbox One in 2019. 
Thanks to the successful Kickstarter campaign the game will also feature: 
Three playable factions with over 40 units types and 9 heroes Three single player campaigns with an overarching story (21 missions) Singleplayer & Coop skirmish matches Single player & Coop challenge maps Competitive multiplayer (ranked matches, seasons) Free DLC 
Are you looking forward to Iron Harvest ? Related texts