Wiebe and Guinness respond to Donkey Kong controversy "It all seemed to make sense now," says King of Kong's Steve Wiebe. Text: Suzanne Berget   16 
If you've seen The King of Kong you know that the conclusion to this story has been many years in the making. The villain of the story, Billy Mitchell, has seen his alleged treachery confirmed and he has duly ]been stripped of his Donkey Kong title and high scores by Twin Galaxies. Furthermore, he's been banned from ever appearing on a Twin Galaxies scoreboard again. 
Mitchell has, of course, dismissed the claims of his cheatery, and stated that everything will be brought to light and we will all rue the day we dared question his mastery of Donkey Kong (slight paraphrasing here, of course). 
Guinness World Records has responded by striking all of his Donkey Kong records from, well, the records. A representative said the following to Kotaku : 
"The Guinness World Records titles relating to Mr. Mitchell's highest scores on Donkey Kong have all been disqualified due to Twin Galaxies being our source of verification for these achievements." 
But Guinness World Records has no chill and has taken it a step further, removing ALL of Mitchell's records: 
"We also recognize records for First perfect score on Pac-Man and Highest score on Pac-Man. Twin Galaxies was the original source of verification for these record titles and in line with their decision to remove all of Mr. Mitchell's records from their system, we have disqualified Mr. Mitchell as the holder of these two records. Guinness World Records will look to update and find the appropriate holder of these records in the next few days." 
Steve Wiebe, the star of the documentary The King of Kong: A Fistful of Quarters, and the person Billy Mitchell stole "the first person to reach 1 million points in Donkey Kong" record from, had this to say about the whole situation in an interview with Variety . 
"The more I thought about it from the 'King of Kong' days, it all seemed to make sense now," Wiebe told them. "All the things that were happening at the time... like why he didn't come out and play me, and why he was inciting whose records were going to be authenticated and whose were going to be dropped. 'King of Kong' referenced that that he was a referee and on the board of directors. When that leaked out, it started to make more sense." 
Hopefully this concludes the Donkey Kong Controversy. Or do you think Mitchell will attempt to sneak his way back into the good graces of Twin Galaxies and Guinness? Related texts