
You will be judged by your speed and culinary expression. Sign up fast, because we're hungry!!!?! 

WHAT IS THIS ALL ABOUT? 
On Saturday, May 26th a bunch of crazy people will jump on their cargo bikes and compete in the silliest and most audacious cargo bike race Copenhagen has ever seen. Competitive racers, smørrebrød fans, extravagant people, young and old will all come together in an explosive wave that will sweep through Nørrebro! The race combines two iconic pieces of Copenhagen culture: cargo bikes and smørrebrød. We decided to join these two together in an event that brings people from different backgrounds and walks of lives together, to celebrate biking culture and the Danish culinary heritage. 
Each team races in one cargo bike that they have decorated and prepared beforehand. Their goal is to get to the smørrebrød station as quickly as possible, prepare three pieces of smørrebrød that should look pretty and taste delicious. After they completed the task they will try to finish the race, balancing their smørrebrød, trying to keep them intact. 
THE STORY BEHIND SMØRREBRØD RACE We are a diverse group of young people with a bit too much free time on our hands! We decided to create something new and bold, something that we believe will become a highly anticipated, yearly event! It was last year in summer when we (Saimon & Philipp) were biking with one cargo bike from Amager to Distortion in Nørrebro. We were already late to the party and biked as fast as we could. We had our crazy party outfits on, loud music playing and everyone was just staring at us. We hadn’t had dinner yet but had a bunch of bread, cucumbers, and mustard in the cargo bike. We couldn’t stop, but we were hungry. So I decided that it would be the best idea to start making smørrebrød while biking. At a red light, a girl asked us what the hell we were doing and we roared: “Smørrebrød racing!” and sped off into the fading sun. 
Our Partners: Bioteket, BRØL, Cyklistforbundet, Kultur N, Osramhuset, Nørrebro Lokaludvalg 