Øresundsregionen 
Kick-start your career as part of our Global Graduate Program in Marketing! Begin an amazing career with a bright future. At British American Tobacco, we give you a great start to your career. How? By placing you in an environment that cultivates learning, collaboration, and leadership in an industry that’s transforming at a rapid pace. An extraordinary confluence of technology, societal change and public health awareness has created a unique opportunity: the opportunity to make a substantial leap forward in our long-held ambition to provide our consumers with potentially reduced-risk tobacco and nicotine choices. As a Graduate you’ll play an important part in the shift from a traditional tobacco company to a provider of next generation nicotine products. Your knowledge and passion are what matters, because that’s what will shape our future. That’s why you should join us on the exciting transformation journey that we have started. The only question is: are you up for the challenge? Our Global Graduate Program The Global Graduate Program is our 2-year international development program that combines a real job from day one with structured development through an on-going focus on learning and training. You’ll be given responsibility and your own projects from the beginning, allowing you to develop your career with support at every stage of the process, including on-going feedback and coaching. It will give you a chance to make an impact on our business and, ultimately, set you up for a successful career ahead. You’ll join our Nordic Marketing team and through 4 rotations, including an international assignment, you’ll discover how our various departments work and learn about the role you will play. You’ll gain fantastic insights into the business: from our factory operations to the products we sell, the markets we operate in, the organizations we compete with and, most important of all, our consumers. You’ll meet up with fellow Graduates and senior colleagues from across the globe at our dedicated learning academy in the heart of the English countryside and at international trainings. As a Global Graduate, you build the experience and develop the skills it takes to become a future leader, project manager or even to fill a role that may not exist today in our constantly evolving company. We offer you: 4 rotations in marketing; including brand, trade and strategic planning & insights 1 international assignment unparalleled development opportunities through a varied training program to develop your leadership and commercial skills to become part of a global network of Graduates cross functional project management a dedicated coach and mentor to support and guide you a position reflecting your passion and competencies The position is based in our Nordic head office in Copenhagen right next to Vesterport Station. 
As the ideal candidate you: have graduated no longer than a year ago from your Master’s Degree education within Marketing or business have a deep interest in business management and the FMCG industry, and you have gained hands-on working experience during your studies are ambitious and motivated by achieving results are innovative and curious manage to combine an analytical mindset and a creative problem-solving approach take ownership in projects and you are equally motivated by working independently and in teams are a great communicator, and fluent in English and one of the Nordic languages have a valid work permit and drivers’ license 
This combined with flexibility and resilience in a constantly changing business environment is what it takes to become successful at BAT. Application deadline is May 13th and the Assessment Centre will take place in Copenhagen on June 21-22. The starting date is between July and September 2018. If you have any questions, please contact our talent team at NECtalent@bat.com Your next step is to get your application underway and show us what you’re made of! 
Working at BAT British American Tobacco is all about freedom of choice — whether it’s our people or our products. Combined with our entrepreneurial spirit, it’s what’s driven our phenomenal success. Alongside our traditional tobacco business, we are at the forefront of developing products that offer consumers potentially less risky alternatives to regular cigarettes. There’s no doubt our industry is controversial — we’re the first to admit that. But rest assured, we take a responsible approach to our trade. We’re committed to tobacco harm reduction, protecting the environment and applying exemplary corporate conduct in our markets and supply chain. Such efforts have kept us in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 13 years. It’s this strong legacy that provides many of our people with a compelling reason to work here. Our focus is on driving high performance; developing the next generation of leaders; valuing the diversity of our employees; encouraging and rewarding entrepreneurial behavior; and creating an engaging culture where individuals and teams can be successful. We are proud of the external recognition we receive each year for our standing as a leading employer in countries worldwide. British American Tobacco Denmark is certified as Top Employers Denmark 2018 as a result of the exceptional employee conditions, the way we nurture and develop talent throughout all levels of the organization and our leadership status in the HR environment, always striving to optimize employment practices and to develop its employees. Ansøgningsfrist d. 13.05.2018 2018-05-13 00:00:00