Posted March 22, 2018 by Richard Lee Breslin in Gaming News , PC , PS4 , Report , Rumour , Xbox One 
According to the sources of charlieINTEL , they claim that a Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2 Remastered is in development, however and this is a BIG HOWEVER, it will apparently feature no multiplayer! I mean seriously, while that game had a very enjoyable (and at times controversial) singleplayer campaign, I think it’s fair to say that most fans of the game loved its multiplayer aspect most of all. So the concept of this much beloved shooter releasing without its awesome multiplayer and only its singleplayer campaign is quite frankly, mind boggling. 
CharlieINTEL also point out that recent retail listings such Amazon Italy listing Modern Warfare 2 Remastered at €19.99, does indicate that it as a budget priced title which would make sense if only half of the game is releasing, when compared to the standalone Modern Warfare Remastered which had a higher price point, but included the singleplayer and multiplayer. 
Their sources also claim that Raven Software is not developing Modern Warfare 2 Remastered , who of course developed Modern Warfare Remastered in 2016. They do suggest however that it is possible that Beenox might be working on the remaster, as the team did aid Raven Software with the development for a portion of Modern Warfare Remastered . 
If these rumours are in-fact true and I have every reason to believe charlieINTEL as they have proven to be very reliable over the years, then this news sucks for fans and certainly won’t go down well with many already disgruntled with Activision. To back-up charlieINTEL’s claims, Eurogamer has also confirmed these claims with their own sources that Modern Warfare 2 Remastered will not include multiplayer or be developed by Raven Software. 
I wonder what the odds are that Activision will sell Modern Warfare 2 Remastered in two separate portions with the singleplayer and multiplayer costing around £19.99 each or £37.99 as a bundle? It really wouldn’t surprise me at all. Report: Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 Remastered with Have No MP!…WTF?! was last modified: March 22nd, 2018 by Richard Lee Breslin Author Gamimg has been my life for 30+ years and will always be my passion. I have a BDes Hons Games Development and Digital Media, and I hope to one day turn my passion for gaming and writing into a living. My favourite gaming series are Resi Evil, Metal Gear Solid, Silent Hill, Assassin's Creed, Uncharted and The Last of Us. I collect gaming merchandise, comics and movies. I love football (namely Aston Villa) and WWE. I can also often be found wondering the outskirts of Raccoon City. Follow me on Twitter @Solidus5nake More articles by Richard Lee Breslin » Latest News 