Employees go away JK Rowling’s Pottermore web site in ‘reorganisation’ Employees go away JK Rowling’s Pottermore web site in ‘reorganisation’ March 22, 2018 Trending No Comments 
Plenty of members of employees at JK Rowling’s fashionable web site for Harry Potter followers have left on account of digital push in a unique route. 
Sky Information contacted a consultant for Pottermore, who mentioned there had been “a small variety of redundancies”, as a consequence of a brand new push for “compelling digital experiences”. 
“Proper now, we’re engaged on some thrilling new initiatives with Warner Bros and our franchise companions,” Pottermore’s consultant mentioned. 
“Which can convey compelling digital experiences to international followers of JK Rowling’s Wizarding World. Picture: The entire solid of the brand new Incredible Beasts film introduced 
“In consequence, there have been a small variety of redundancies inside Pottermore. We’re sorry to say goodbye to these affected however wanting ahead to sharing our new plans quickly.” 
The information was first reported by the web site BuzzFeed Information. 
Pottermore is not only a fan web site, but in addition a large on-line group, with greater than two million customers on Fb and one other two million on Twitter. 
The “reorganisation” of the web site has sparked theories that the way forward for Pottermore could possibly be in danger. 
BuzzFeed Information quoted one former worker who mentioned the dealing with of the web site has been “disappointing”. 
“It is basically a glorified merchandise store with some cute articles which may enchantment to hardcore followers however do not have sufficient of a degree of distinction from the remainder of the web’s writing about Harry Potter to outlive,” he informed BuzzFeed. 
Rowling has lately been embroiled in one other controversy, for defending Johnny Depp’s casting as wizard Grindelwald, after some customers complained on Twitter. 
“Primarily based on our understanding of the circumstances, the filmmakers and I will not be solely snug sticking with our unique casting, however genuinely completely happy to have Johnny enjoying a serious character within the films,” Rowling mentioned in response to allegations of home abuse by the actor. 
“I settle for that there can be those that will not be happy with our selection of actor within the title position. Nonetheless, conscience is not governable by committee. Inside the fictional world and out of doors it, all of us must do what we imagine to be the fitting factor.” 
Depp was accused of home abuse by his former companion actress Amber Heard. 
He denies the allegations. 