Join the 360° Trainee Program Tieto Denmark A/S Hent PDF-filen 
Kick-start your career with the leading Nordic IT service provider in our 360° Trainee Program. You will be given the opportunity to develop and form your future career. Are you quality-minded and interested in consultancy? Do you enjoy working in teams, but also to be given responsibility to complete tasks individually? Do you have a background or interest within IT and want to contribute in digitizing the Nordics? This is your chance! 
Candidates we are looking for: Recent graduate (0-2 years of work experience) with a bachelor or master in the following fields: Project management Business IT Architecture 
Program Information 
The one-year Trainee Program, introduced in 2004, consists of rotations in different departments, working with customers and trainee modules, where you get to interact closely with all trainee colleagues from different countries with a primary focus on developing knowledge and skills. In addition, you will have individual sessions with coaches and a dedicated mentor. During the rotations you will be placed in departments such as Products and R&D (Research and Development), Cloud, Service & Support and Professional Services (Consulting). This gives you a 360-degree view and understanding of the entire value chain, but also allows you to go into your field of expertise to a greater extend. What we do? 
You will be placed in the business unit, Software Innovation, in the Public Healthcare and Welfare division of Tieto. You will work with our document and case management solution, 360°, which helps digitalizing the public sector in the Nordics. Local offices 
We have offices in Oslo, Copenhagen, Helsinki and Stockholm and by using the e-mail below you will be applying for a position in Holte (greater Copenhagen). 
Are you interested in shaping a smarter society? 
Program start: Middle August 2018 Deadline: Ongoing hiring 
Please send your application and CV to HR Business Partner: Gwen.jeppesen@tieto.com - Short introduction videos are welcome. Løbende ansøgningsfrist