Online Shop Manager Assistant – Student position VELUX Group Nordsjælland Storkøbenhavn 
At the VELUX Group, we give you the chance to grow. To shape your own career. To work in an international environment. To be part of a company that leads the market in sustainable indoor living. We offer you a world of opportunities – if you have the ability and the drive to take them. Discover more at velux.com/career or velux.dk/karriere 
Would you like to be part of a newly established online sales organisation responsible for all B2C e-commerce activities? Do you want to know all there is to know about e-commerce, conversion rate optimisation and how to run an online shop? Do you thrive in a team of smart, energetic colleagues around you? Then this job may be your next career step. In short, we are looking for an assistant to help our team of online shop managers. We are looking for someone who is energetic, eager to learn and thrives in an international organisation. You are flexible, you have an open mind and you bring a can-do attitude the team. 
Your challenges 
You will be part of the online sales organisation (OSO) responsible for all B2C online sales of Solstro and the VELUX® blind shops through websites as well as market places to 29 countries. 
Your role is to support the growth of sales of our online shops by assisting with anything and everything that comes at you. Our objective as a team is to deliver a great consumer experience underpinned by data-driven decision taking and optimisations. 
Your primary tasks will be: Supporting in communications with local sales companies by helping in replying to emails, setting up meetings, writing and sending out notes, posting updates on Yammer etc. Supporting the shop managers with monthly reporting on shop performance Supporting the 1:1 migration of the shops from Joomla to Sitecore by helping with uploading images, copying over text from the old CMS to the new CMS, proof reading and testing Assisting in maintaining the website calendar containing all activities, campaigns, content updates etc. Assisting in setting up and creating content for campaigns: promotions, retargeting and affiliate campaigns for branded shops Assisting the whole online sales organisation with any ad hoc tasks 
You will work very closely with the shop managers as well as with the rest of the OSO team (Content, Product, Acquisition, Customer Experience, IT, Operations, Customer Care, Analytics) to ensure maximum performance. 
Working hours will be between 15-20 hours per week. The actual timing of the hours is flexible and will be adjusted to your study programme. 
Your qualifications 
You are currently studying a bachelor’s or master’s degree in marketing or another similar field. As a true digital native, you have a strong interest in digital and social marketing as well as a willingness to learn.You are result-oriented and persistent in relation to achieving company goals. On top of that, you thrive working in a deadline-driven environment. 
You are highly organised and efficient with meticulous attention to detail. 
On a personal level, you are self-motivated and entrepreneurial with a commercial and analytical approach to understanding consumer behaviour. With your good sense of humour and a positive mindset, you add quality to team efforts. 
As you will engage with stakeholders throughout our organisation, excellent communication skills are imperative for this position. 
Fluency in English is a prerequisite. Other European languages will be a strong asset. 
Your opportunities 
The purchasing landscape for roof windows is changing, moving towards an omni-channel model with the online space becoming vital at the search stage allowing customers to quickly and easily find and compare the products they want. In general, all market statistics indicate an increased migration of consumers towards online solutions for both information and purchase. The trend is clear, and we believe online will continue to grow in most parts of the world. You will work together with colleagues at a high professional level – colleagues who put extra emphasis into working as one team to reach our ambitious results, and the international setting is in our DNA. Our team is characterised by an informal tone and respect for each other both as team players and as individuals. We believe in empowering people, and we support this through sharing knowledge, delegating responsibility and investing in people who strive to make a difference. We are a strong value-based company where commitment, thoroughness and mutual respect are among the core values and teamwork and professionalism is essential to the way we work. 
Application and contact 
If you have any questions regarding the position please contact Lise Lausted at lise.lausted@velux.com or find us online at http://www.velux.com . We look forward to receiving your application and CV as soon as possible and no later than April 8, 2018. 
Work place: Hørsholm 
For more information: Lise Lausted at lise.lausted@velux.com 
Our company For 75 years, the VELUX Group has created better living environments for people around the world; making the most of daylight and fresh air through the roof. Our product programme includes roof windows and modular skylights as well as a range of decoration and sun screenings, roller shutters, installation solutions and intelligent home controls. These products help to ensure a healthy and sustainable indoor climate, for work and learning, for play and pleasure. We work globally – with sales and manufacturing operations in more than 40 countries and around 9,500 employees worldwide. The VELUX Group is owned by VKR Holding A/S, a limited company wholly owned by foundations and family. For more information, visit www.velux.com Ansøgningsfrist d. 08.04.2018 2018-04-08 00:00:00