Cyberpunk 2077 supports "future, very powerful" hardware Kiciński won't confirm the generational leap but admits there are no plans for a Switch version. Text: Sergio Figueroa Published on the 23rd of Mar 2018 at 10 
Cyberpunk 2077 will be shown right before E3 2018, as confirmed by CD Projekt Red president Adam Kiciński, but there are no clear details on how that reveal is going to be handled. During a recent investors' meeting, the man from CDPR admitted that everyone at the studio is eager to finally show the game and explain how it'll work. They're so eager, in fact, that Kiciński ended up answering some questions. 
One of them was naturally about whether Cyberpunk 2077 is heading to next-generation consoles or not. As there's no announcement on new hardware he won't comment on the matter, but he points out that the technology they're using is "very advance", and thus the game can take advantage of "future, very powerful" hardware, as noted by DualShockers . 
Kiciński also underlined that the Polish studio has no plans to adapt Cyberpunk 2077 to the Nintendo Switch, nor any other of their previous titles at this point in time, but that doesn't mean that they're not looking into the hybrid console for future projekts. 
Finally, the studio president took the chance to remind everyone that Cyberpunk 2077 is a story-driven single-player experience set in an expansive world, and that its character editor includes classes , ditching recent rumors suggesting that this element was removed from the game. 
What isn't clear yet is whether there'll be a multiplayer mode (or whether something will come after launch), and they were also asked about a potential Battle Royale mode, but right now the studio isn't talking about that. 
"Well actually we're considering everything and anything but as of today we're not discussing Cyberpunk yet. The first thing we're going to discuss is the immense story-driven roleplay for a single-player without any micro-payments whatsoever, without any hidden things whatsoever, just as was the case for The Witcher 3. 
"Even though it's going to be a very different game than The Witcher 3 with no predefined character, a futuristic world... the product character: it's going to be just the same as The Witcher 3 - namely a single-player game purchased for a one-off fee." 
Do you think you'll need futuristic hardware to run Cyberpunk 2077? Related texts