MNS Employees Goal Signboards Written In Gujarati In Mumbai, Vasai MNS Employees Goal Signboards Written In Gujarati In Mumbai, Vasai March 19, 2018 Trending No Comments Right this moment, some retailers in Mumbai that had Gujarati signboards confronted the wrath of the MNS staff. Thane: Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) staff pulled down signboards written in Gujarati from some business institutions in Mumbai and adjoining Vasai, hours after celebration chief Raj Thackeray known as for a “Modi-Mukt Bharat” at a rally right here yesterday.
After the rally, the MNS staff, carrying celebration flags, ransacked a number of roadside eateries close to Vasai, on the Mumbai-Ahmedabad freeway, final evening and destroyed their signboards written in Gujarati. 
Right this moment, some retailers in Mumbai that had Gujarati signboards confronted the wrath of the MNS staff. These included a candy store within the north Mumbai suburb of Kandivli, police stated. 
This isn’t the primary time that the MNS has attacked properties owned by Gujaratis in Maharashtra. In July 2017, the celebration had launched violent protests towards a jewelry store and a resort in Mumbai, forcing them to tug down their signboards written in Gujarati. 
After the Vasai incident, MNS Thane area president Avinash Jadhav stated, “Vasai is in Maharashtra and never in Gujarat. We won’t tolerate signboards in Gujarati.” 
Addressing the celebration staff at a rally at Shivaji Park in central Mumbai final evening, Mr Thackeray had stated, “The nation is fed up with the false guarantees made by (Prime Minister) Narendra Modi and his authorities.” 
“All of the opposition events ought to come collectively to eliminate the BJP-led NDA authorities to make sure a Modi-mukt Bharat,” he had stated, whereas reminding the viewers of the BJP’s “Congress-mukt Bharat” slogan. 
Describing the vandalism by MNS staff as a nuisance tactic, a political analyst stated, “Raj Thackeray is doing what he’s finest recognized for. He ought to perceive that the instances have modified and the persons are interested by constructive insurance policies.” 
The MNS chief has been essential of PM Modi as in accordance with him, the latter desires to shift all the foremost institutions from Maharashtra to Gujarat. 
In 2008, the MNS had began a marketing campaign to make sure that signboards throughout Mumbai have been in Marathi. 
In 2016, throughout Paryushan, the fasting interval of the Jain group, the MNS had opposed the closure of meat retailers and opened them forcibly. Share this: 