Sports O’Neill must lead from front for new-look Ireland 
Gerry Peyton played 33 times for Ireland. The former Fulham goalkeeper held the number one jersey throughout the Eoin Hand era during the first half of the 1980s. 
The Birmingham-born keeper was part of Ireland’s Euro 88 squad, as well as gaining a place on the plane to the 1990 World Cup. 
But by then, Peyton was playing a supporting role on the international front, having been usurped by Packie Bonner, who played every game at the aforementioned tournaments. 
It was no coincidence that Peyton's demotion to the role of understudy coincided with the arrival of Jack Charlton in 1986. 
For Peyton didn’t care much for kicking the ball high and long up the pitch. The keeper’s trademark throw-out to the always available Dave Langan or Ashley Grimes allowed Ireland to maintain possession and build from the back. 
Peyton is now into his 14th season as goalkeeping coach at Arsenal, and he might have raised a wry smile had he been watched his old international side as they turned the clock back in Turkey on Friday night. 
The latest chapter in the Martin O’Neill era began in typically non-stimulating style in Antalya, as he watched his side lose 1-0 to Turkey. 
Ireland’s first outing since the humiliating 5-1 defeat to Denmark last November, and O’Neill travelled with a new-look squad for a five-day camp at the Mediterranean seaside resort, which culminated in the 1-0 defeat at the Antalya Stadyumu. 
O’Neill has had more than four months to ponder his starting approach as he sets off on the road to Euro 2020, which, even with the Stoke City distraction, is a long time to wait to right the wrongs of that terrible night at Lansdowne Road. 
With no competitive fixtures to really focus on, the Ireland manager had free reign to try something new on Friday night, and while the performance was far from fascinating, there was a lot to appreciate from the Irish outing. 
Declan Rice’s debut and overall performance has gained many column inches, and rightly so, following such a composed debut in both defence and midfield. 
But while the West Ham youngster’s first showing in an Ireland jersey was pin-pointed as the real bright spark – and many would say only bright spark – from the away fixture, there were aspects of the manager’s approach that do merit some amount of appreciation. 
There was more than a sharp intake of breath ahead of the game with the realisation that the Derry man was again opting to trial a defensive three in his starting XI. 
The last such experiment went horribly wrong in June of last year as Ireland’s end of season escapade turned into a charade of sorts at the MetLife Stadium in New Jersey, losing 3-1 to Mexico. 
But the Ireland manager went for it again on Friday night with the ever-reliable Shane Duffy sitting in between Kevin Long on his right and young Rice on the left side of the trio. 
Seamus Coleman and James McClean filled in at wing-backs on either flank, and while those two particular performances failed to ignite, the three-man partnership worked quite well. 
For the Irish back three were anxious to play the ball out of defence at every opportunity. 
Rice and Long always showed for Colin Doyle on either side of the box, resulting in such tactics that were made virtually extinct from the Irish international set-up since Big Jack came in and afforded Packie Bonner no such liberties in the number one jersey. 
And it worked. 
Ireland played the ball out from the back on numerous occasions in the opening 45 minutes, which allowed the midfield unit of Conor Hourihane, Jeff Hendrick and Alan Browne to drop in and pick up the ball in an effort to keep possession. 
An inability to hold onto the ball has been one of the biggest and most consistent criticisms of the O’Neill era and maybe now O’Neill realises that he cannot count on team spirit alone to win him games and qualify for tournaments. 
At one stage, late in the first half, Ireland knocked the ball around at pace and with genuine ease as they strung 20 consecutive passes together. 
What’s rare is wonderful. And while that particular passage of play did not bear fruit, the players proved that they can play that way, once given the green light from the ever-cautious manager. 
There might be method to the manager’s madness, however, as this playing out from the back did also invite the home side to push on a bit, which might explain Ireland’s tendency to send several long, hopeful balls in the direction of the energy-filled attacking duo of Sean Maguire and Scott Hogan. 
Hogan’s first-half chance was Ireland’s best of the match, and came from that midfield unit as Hendrick found himself in space with the time and confidence to guide a sublime ball into the path of the motoring Hogan. 
Some might argue that O’Neill’s deployment of an extra man in defence is just another line of defence around his traditional ring of steel mentality. 
And that was in evidence during those opening 51 minutes as both Coleman and McClean appeared to be playing in a traditional full-back position with neither player having any real effect in the opposing half of the pitch. 
McClean’s defensive capabilities were certainly exposed, playing in that position, and Friday night’s performance would indicate that the West Brom man is not suited to such a role. 
It was no coincidence that the former Derry City man only started to influence matters going forward after Daryl Horgan came on and pushed McClean further up the pitch. 
And there was a certain irony about the way that the second-half transpired as Ireland were finally breached, by a set-piece, while O’Neill’s new formation only started to look effective when his side were chasing the game. 
Matt Doherty was barely on the pitch when the Wolves man, on in place of captain Seamus Coleman, was racing up the right flank, as Ireland went in search of an equaliser. 
Everton defender Coleman, who was returning to international duty for the first time since breaking his leg in March of last year, failed to work the flank throughout and, likewise with McClean, that must go down as a failure in the manager’s system and instructions. 
But there is certainly something to bring to France in May as Ireland have the luxury of two more international friendlies before their next competitive outing in September. 
If the manager is keen on progressing this possession-based approach to the game, a lot of work will need to be put in on the training ground, something which is not any easy task in the international set-up. 
But one thing that can change is the mentality and approach to the games. 
Ireland’s best football during the O’Neill era, with the exception of the games against Sweden and Italy at Euro 2016, has been played when his team are chasing the game, and the players are actively encouraged to push on and take risks. 
The manager has perhaps stumbled onto a formation that allows his side to attack through midfield and down either flank, while keeping two players high up the pitch as well as keeping a strong defensive option. 
And while the new additions to the squad have certainly offered the manager a better arsenal to 'go to war' in the upcoming campaign, O’Neill needs to lead from the front in order to get the most out of his new-look system. Sports ‘Every kid needs a pool’: Outback town looks to beat the heat 
Email Small town in outback South Australia plans to build its own pool to beat the heat ABC North and West By Gary-Jon Lysaght 
Updated March 25, 2018 07:36:07 
Photo: Mickey McKenzie (L) and Tyson Johnson want a new pool in their outback town (Supplied: Travis Hague) Related Story: Midnight swimming keeps nocturnal Aboriginal teens out of trouble Related Story: How much wee is actually in your local pool? Map: Andamooka 5722 
A grassroots campaign has begun at Andamooka, a town in the South Australian outback, to try to raise $100,000 to fund a new public pool. 
The nearest pool to Andamooka is at Roxby Downs, a 30-minute drive south. 
The town used to have a pool at the local school, but it closed due to community concerns over ongoing costs. It has a splash pad — a shallow water area for children to cool down during hot days. 
Sydney has more than 80 public pools, while Adelaide has roughly 25. 
Andamooka can become extremely hot during summer, with it frequently passing 40 degrees Celsius. 
Mickey McKenzie, an 11-year-old Andamooka local, said on those days there was not much to do in the town except "stay inside" and "play games". 
"Every kid needs a pool," Mickey said. 
Another local youth, Kevin Hurrell, 11, usually visits the Roxby Downs pool when he is in the town. 
Photo: Andamooka children have voiced their support for a new pool in their town. (Supplied: Travis Hague) 
"When it's summer, we usually go most of the time if we're here or in Whyalla," Kevin said. 
"We're up in the desert and it gets too hot. 
Meanwhile, Tyson Johnson, 12, said the pool would help with his swimming lessons. 
His mum, Chelsea Parker, said a pool would be great for the whole town. 
"It would help attract families to our town; it would help boost our businesses," she said. The push for a pool 
John Smirniof is a local publican who kickstarted the campaign. 
He said there was a tyranny of distance which prevented a lot of trips to the pool. 
"The families, if they want to take their kids there, they've got to drive 30 kilometres there and back," he said. 
"Last month, we had nearly three weeks straight of nearly 45 degrees. 
Photo: Johnny Smirniof plans to write to businesses at Roxby Downs, asking them to contribute to the campaign. (Supplied: Travis Hague) 
The campaign is still in its infancy, but Mr Smirniof said there were big plans to try to raise the money. 
"There are a few companies [at Roxby Downs] that I'm sure will help us and even donate some funds towards the pool," he said. 
"I've just put a jar at the front of the bar and we've already raised over $2500 and that's within a couple of weeks." 
There are also plans to have sausage sizzles to try to raise the money to build the pool. 
Mr Smirniof acknowledged that the pool had a high price tag for such a small community. 
"But we have people here in the town who are willing to help," he said. 
"We've got earth movers who will donate their time and dig the hole and we know another guy who puts swimming pools in and he'll come up and do it for nothing. 
"We've got a lot of back up" A word of warning for Andamooka 
Photo: A jar at Mr Smirniof's pub is just one way the town is collecting money for the pool. (Supplied: Travis Hague) 
Cecilia Woolford, chairwoman of the South Australian Outback Communities Authority, said Andamooka should be wary of the costs of maintaining a pool in the outback. 
"I can only encourage them, if that's their thinking, but we [the OCA] would be saying, look at the lifecycle costs. 
"How are you actually going to manage it? Is it the best value for money for that township? 
"The costs of chemicals alone would be extraordinary and I don't know that you can recoup that from the travelling public," she said. 
"It would probably be less expensive to buy a new bus and have the school bus going to Roxby Downs." 
She said the town's award-winning splash pad was a great alternative to a pool. 
However, Donna Waters, the Andamooka Youth Group Coordinator, said the splash pad was expensive and didn't compare to a real pool. 
Topics: swimming, regional-development, regional, people, sport, andamooka-5722, roxby-downs-5725, olympic-dam-5725, port-pirie-5540, port-augusta-5700, whyalla-5600 
First posted March 25, 2018 07:29:14 
More stories from South Australia Sports Behind a Dominant Defense and Continual Growth, Michigan Has Made Its Season a Special One 
LOS ANGELES — Inside the victorious Michigan locker room, atop a carpet long soggy from spilled water bottles, someone pushed a white board against the wall. The right side of this white board told the story of the Wolverines season. On top, someone had affixed a picture of a dog, maybe a pitbull, its mouth twisted into a grimace, teeth out, spit flying everywhere. And below the picture someone had scribbled a single word followed by three exclamation points. 
It read: Final 4!!! 
That was Michigan this season, a team that wasn’t defined by baggy shorts or future NBA stars or thought early on to be a national championship contender. That Michigan played a junkyard-dog-type defense, and that defense became the Wolverines' identity, and that identity carried into the Big Ten season and the NCAA tournament and an Elite Eight game on Friday. In that game, against Florida State on Saturday at the Staples Center, Michigan basketball played defense as well as any football squads under Bo Schembechler, and because of that dominant D, they battered the Seminoles, winning 58–54 on a night where they made fewer than 40% of their shots. 
• Michigan Fans, Buy Your Final Four Gear Here! 
The win personified the picture affixed to the white board and it led to the slogan scribbled underneath. The Wolverines were indeed headed back to the Final Four, in perhaps the most unexpected bid in program history, with not only a legitimate chance to win but also a scheduled date with Loyola-Chicago in the Final Four where Michigan will be favored to advance. 
“There’s just been this constant improvement all year, this upward trajectory,” forward Duncan Robinson said. “This is where it led.” 
To here, after all the Michigan missed free throws and the Florida State comebacks thwarted, when the final buzzer sounded. Robinson flung the ball about 20 feet in the air and an arena filled with Michigan fans erupted in celebration. “It felt like a home game,” he said, hat turned backward, a snippet of the net tucked into the brim. 
The fans lingered afterward, dancing to Celebration , swapping hi-fives, recounting the season that was and that will continue, from starting their campaign unranked to the two losses in November to the Big Ten tournament championship to the NCAA buzzer beater from freshman guard Jordan Poole that toppled Houston and sent the Wolverines to Los Angeles. What a year it was. 
The players gathered on the stage that had been assembled hastily near half court. They donned Final Four hats, tilting them sideways, and tugged T-shirts over their jerseys. This revelry wasn’t as intense as the (first) water fight after Poole’s one shining moment but it marked a worthy celebration. 
Here was a team that started the season in the “receiving votes” category of the top 25, although that was misleading, because Michigan was also loaded with talent and tradition. What it lacked was a superstar, a future lottery pick, a takeover-games type. Yet here they were, the Wolverines, headed to the Final Four. They are the fourth team in school history to win 30 games (they're currently 32–7) and that history is encouraging. The other three teams … won a national title (1989), lost a national title (1993) and made the Final Four (2013). Good company, more or less. 
“Hold it up! Hold it up!” the fans chanted, until coach John Beilein lofted the trophy from the West Region overhead. Then the crowd performed some group karaoke, belting out Hail to the Victors ! so loud it probably could be heard in Hollywood, a good 40 minutes of traffic hell away. 
The 2013 Michigan team starred Trey Burke, the future NBA guard whose three-pointer tied a Sweet 16 game against Kansas, allowing the Wolverines to come back in overtime and triumph. So many of the current players saw that shot. Watching it go in, Poole said, was the first time he had ever considered Michigan. 
For C.J. Baird, one of the team’s walk-ons, Burke’s triple cemented his love for all things Wolverine. Baird was watching the game in Florida, visiting his grandparents. He watched the shot go in and “went crazy,” he says, running onto the balcony and screaming and running up and down the stairs of his grandparent’s apartment complex. He was so loud, he says, the neighbors yelled upstairs to tell him to shut up. “I saw that team go to the national championship,” he said. “I really believe if we continue to stay together, stay connected, we’re going to make that run again.” 
It sure felt that way on Saturday, with former Michigan football star Desmond Howard and former basketball star turned well-known coach Rudy Tomjanovich in the stands here to serve as stand-ins for the Lakers' regulars, like Jack Nicholson. They were on hand to watch this cast of characters that Beilein had assembled. Guys like Moritz Wagner, the German who barely registered with recruiting services; or Zavier Simpson, whose father called, asking the Wolverines to recruit his son; or Robinson, who transferred from a Division III liberal arts college. 
There was also Charles Matthews, the Michigan player who possessed the most NBA talent and idolized Kobe Bryant and played like him on Saturday. He was good enough to play at Kentucky but didn’t succeed there and transferred to Michigan. Before the Wolverines opened their NCAA tournament against Montana, he stopped his teammates as they left their first practice for the locker room. “Everybody back in here,” he told them, gathering his teammates for a huddle. “We’re going to win the whole thing,” he announced. 
Then on Saturday night at the Staples Center, that same Matthews staked Michigan to a 27–26 advantage at the half, scoring 10 points. Matthews was key to this match-up in particular, because the Seminoles presented the Wolverines with problems, because the Seminoles were long and athletic and deep; they played 11 players with regularity. They forced Michigan into 11 turnovers and a 7-of-21 shooting performance in the first half. But the Wolverines adjusted. Story of their season. Matthews finished with 17 and Moritz added 12 and while many of his teammates missed foul shots to keep Florida State in the game, Robinson made two big ones near the end that cemented the Wolverines' triumph. 
“It’s insane,” freshman forward Isaiah Livers said. “We just keep getting to a bigger stage and we just keep winning that.” 
Make no mistake about it: Michigan will contend for the national title in San Antonio. The Wolverines will be favored in their Final Four contest and they are likely to be underdogs should they advance to the national title game. To do so, they will start with the strength of their team this season: defense. 
Michigan ranked as high as third in KenPom rankings for defensive efficiency. They do that with a big shot blocker like Wagner and several athletic, long wings that can rotate in. Mostly, said Luke Yaklich, an assistant coach and defensive specialist, the Wolverines improved defensively this season because they worked at that specifically. “We raised our defensive standard,” he said. 
College Basketball Even the Walk-On Gets Into the Act as Loyola-Chicago Plays Its Way to Final Four 
Yaklich saw glimpses of what was possible as early as Michigan’s overtime win over UCLA on Dec. 9. He really saw it when went to Texas and topped the Longhorns three days later. “They played an unbelievable defensive game that day,” he said. “That got them in a rhythm.” 
That carried over into Saturday, against Florida State. Michigan limited the Seminoles to a 31.4% shooting percentage and held guard Terance Mann, the Seminoles' best player, to seven points. 
While his players took turns snipping off pieces of the net, Beilein made his way courtside, for a radio interview. He saw a group of supporters lining the front row there, cheering him on, yelling compliments about his game plan, the season he guided his team through and even for his yellow-striped tie. He held his right arm aloft and pumped his fist. This was for them, the people who believed the way his team believed, who saw the raw talent and potential coalesce in the most unlikely special season of all of Michigan’s special seasons. It was on to San Antonio, whether anyone expected that or not. 
“Did anyone expect us to be this good?” assistant coach Saddi Washington asked. It was a relative question, one he did not expect to answer. Maybe, he said. Maybe not. 
“We’re here.” 