Volvo 
Its name might be misleading, but no, the E-Pace is not the electric Jaguar. It is the F-Pace’s baby brother that wants to put up a (cat) fight against the likes of the BMW X1, Volvo XC40 and its own cousin, the Range Rover Evoque. What does it bring to the boxing ring? E for Evoque 
You probably wouldn’t tell from the outside, but the underpinnings of the E-Pace are those of the Range Rover Evoque. That is a priori a positive thing: the baby Range has always been praised for its agreeable driving dynamics, off-road capability and ride quality. Jaguar has however shifted the comfort-oriented balance more towards agility and sportiness for the E-Pace, without exaggerating, however. It is not as unforgiving on bumps and potholes as the F-Pace, which disappoints in this respect. 
Once you get inside, you can see certain similarities with the Evoque, too, but the Jag has an interior ambiance of its own. The slanted centre console with its side bar hints at the F-Type, and so do many other styling cues. If the Evoque works for you in terms of seating position and controls, but you prefer a sportier approach, then the E-Pace might tickle your fancy. It is also quite spacious, without however reaching the benchmark set by the Volvo XC40. Jaguar claims the boot can take 577 litres. That is best-in-class, although subjectively, it does not look bigger than the Swede’s. E for engaging 
So, the E-Pace wants to offer a more engaging drive than the Evoque. But can it? The powertrain line-up is (more or less) the same and ranges from the 150-hp front-wheel drive 2-litre diesel with a 6-speed manual to the 300-hp strong all-wheel drive 2-litre petrol with a ZF 9-speed automatic. The all-wheel drive system can make the E-Pace behave like a rear-wheel drive car in the case of the more powerful engines, but the fleet-relevant ones (the 150 and 180 hp diesels) make do with a simpler, efficiency-focused set-up. 
Our test car was a D240 R-Dynamic HSE equipped with the advanced torque-vectoring AWD system and the ZF-sourced nine-speed automatic. As such, the E-Pace is a pleasant driving machine that behaves predictably and never gets disconcerted under normal driving conditions. The optional Adaptive Dynamics comprise active shock absorbers to better contain rolling. In any case, this cat seems to have found the sweet spot on many levels. 
E for excessive 
You would expect the E-Pace to be lighter than the Evoque. It is more modern and makes use of more lightweight materials, right? Wrong. In fact, the E-Pace uses more steel than the Evoque and weighs in at a staggering 1,843 kg in the case of the fleet-favourite D150 Automatic AWD. Part of the explanation lies in the fact that if you opt for the automatic transmission, you automatically get the all-wheel drive system. But the same goes for the Evoque, which with the same powertrain puts 100 kg less on the scales. 
The comparable BMW X1 2.0d xDrive Steptronic weighs 1,615 kg empty – a difference that equals three adult passengers. No wonder that the E-Pace emits 147 g/km CO 2 , which is 21 grams more than the Bavarian crossover. Both are correlated NEDC (i.e. WLTP-derived) figures, incidentally, so no disadvantage for the Jag there. The E-Pace does however come with a less efficient nine-speed automatic: it causes an increase of 10 g/km over the manual model. In the case of the Bavarian, the 8-speed automatic does the opposite: it lowers the CO 2 rating by a few grams. E for expensive 
So, opting for the 9-speed auto automatically means opting for the all-wheel drive system, increasing the already hefty base price by some €4,000 excluding VAT. The ZF unit has its pros and its cons. On the upside, its ninth gear lowers the engine’s rpm on motorways, reducing fuel consumption and noise. In this respect, the E-Pace is an excellent long-distance runner. Its shorter in-between gears, however, make the transmission shift a lot. A kick-down usually means shifting down two or even three gears, causing an unpleasant delay. 
Other than that, the E-Pace is an attractive alternative to the usual premium suspects. Unfortunately, if you want all the good stuff – a sunroof, leather seats, sat nav, nice rims – you easily hit the €45k mark (excluding VAT). The Touch Pro connected infotainment & navigation is not the best system on the market either, but the improvement over the first generation is noticeable. Safety-wise, this Jag comes with autonomous emergency braking and lane keeping assist as standard. Highly recommendable is the €700-odd Drive Pack, which includes high-speed emergency braking, adaptive cruise control with queue assist and blind spot monitoring. The bottom line 
What the E-Pace lacks in rational arguments, it makes up in emotional ones. On the one hand, it is excessively heavy, emits more CO 2 than its competitors and it carries a heftier price tag. On the other, it is fun and reassuring to drive and exudes an awe-inspiring interior ambiance. Time will tell which way this new kitten will jump, but to really make an impact, it needs an entry-level petrol engine and a hybrid powertrain. JLR has been road-testing mild hybrid set ups for nearly a year now, so perhaps the solution to the CO 2 issue will pop out the pipeline soon. 
PROS Excellent balance between comfort and dynamics Soundproofing (with reasonable rims) 