Indhold fra partner Hvad er dette? 
O ne of Denmark's leading hospitality providers, BC Hospitality Group, was yesterday named one of six National Winners from 33 businesses representing the 'Ones to Watch' in Denmark at an exclusive event held at Café Opera in Stockholm by 'The European Business Awards' - Europe's largest business competition, sponsored by RSM. af BC Hospitality Group Se virksomhedsprofil 
BC Hospitality Group was chosen by a panel of independent judges including senior business leaders, politicians and academics as the best in their country in the Awards' category of The Social Responsibility and Environmental Awareness Award, and they will now go on to represent their country in this category in the final stage of the competition. 
"We are honored to be among the Danish winners and of the acknowledgement of our Group's holistic approach to 'Responsible Hospitality'. Working with sustainability is, in fact, part of our core strategy and part of everything we do in the hospitality business when Hosting Moments that Matter. The award is also a great accolade to our many dedicated employees, who continuously strive to implement and develop new sustainable initiatives across all our hotels, congress and conference venues, etc.," said Allan L. Agerholm, CEO of BC Hospitality Group in Copenhagen. 
"The independent awards programme by RSM not only offers an excellent platform for recognizing and encouraging more business leaders to believe in and dare to invest in their ideas, but is also a great opportunity to meet and share knowledge with other outstanding businesses and industries," Agerholm adds. 
The National Winners from each country will face further judging in their chosen category, and the final Category Winners will be announced at the European Business Awards Gala Final in Warsaw, Poland on 23rd May 2018. 
The European Business Awards is now in its 11th year and its primary purpose is to support the development of a stronger and more successful business community throughout Europe. Last year it engaged with over 33,000 businesses from 34 countries. Sponsors and partners include RSM, ELITE and PR Newswire. 
● ● ● 
About the European Business Awards: 
The European Business Awards' primary purpose is to support the development of a stronger and more successful business community throughout Europe. The programme serves the European business community in three ways: 
• It celebrates and endorses individuals' and organisations' success 
• It provides and promotes examples of excellence for the business community to aspire to 
• It engages with the European business community to create debate on key issues 
The European Business Awards is now in its 11th year. Last year it engaged with over 33,000 businesses from 34 countries. Sponsors and partners include RSM, ELITE, Germany Trade & Invest, PR Newswire, Bureau Van Dijk and SDL Managed Translation. Investec is the sponsor of the UK event at the London Stock Exchange. 
Twitter: @rsmEBA 
LinkedIn: "The European Business Awards" 
About BC Hospitality Group: 
Founded in 2014, BC Hospitality Group is one of Denmark's largest hotel, conference, exhibition and hospitality providers. In total, the group offers more than 1,584 hotel rooms, 162 meeting- & conference rooms, and conference-, meeting- and event facilities with a maximum capacity of over 30,000 delegates. The company's portfolio includes the Bella Center Copenhagen, Comwell Conference Center Copenhagen, Crowne Plaza Copenhagen Towers, AC Hotel Bella Sky Copenhagen, Copenhagen Marriott, CIFF, CIFF Showrooms, International House and Forum Copenhagen. The Group employs 2,000 persons, thereof 750 in permanent positions, and its annual result (2016) showed a total revenue of 1,135 million DKK. 
Visit bchg.dk/press for further information and connect with BC Hospitality Group on LinkedIn 
About RSM: 
RSM is the sixth largest network of independent audit, tax and consulting firms, encompassing over 120 countries, 800 offices and more than 43,000 people internationally. The network's total fee income is US$5.1 billion. 
As an integrated team, we share skills, insight and resources, as well as a client-centric approach that's based on a deep understanding of our clients' businesses. This is how we empower them to move forward with confidence and realise their full potential. 
RSM is the lead sponsor and corporate champion of the European Business Awards promoting commercial excellence and recognition of entrepreneurial brilliance. 
RSM is a member of the Forum of Firms, with the shared objective to promote consistent and high quality standards of financial and auditing practices worldwide. 
Attached files 
The European Business Award 2018 - Nordic Countries.jpg 
Contact information 
Allan L. Agerholm, CEO - BC Hospitality Group, ala@bchg.dk / (+45) 5060 4400 or 
EBA: Emma Cozens emma.cozens@businessawardseurope.com / (+44) 207 2343544