Indhold fra partner Hvad er dette? 
L ast year's results and what to expect in 2018? af Sustainable Brand Index 4 Billeder 
The launch of the 2018 Sustainable Brand Index is almost around the corner. After around 35 000 consumer interviews and more than 900 brand assessments in 5 countries, the results for 2018 are almost here. This April, the most sustainable brands of 2018 in all Nordics countries and the Netherlands will be announced. 
Based on different sectors, market trends, consumer behaviour and brand drivers, the study yearly ranks the most sustainable brands of Denmark. Brands are selected based on market share, turnover and general brand awareness. In 2017, Urtekram has been ranked as Denmark's most sustainable brand in the Sustainable Brand Index. Tesla and Friland where the runner-up number two and three. 
Next to brand assessments, the study also maps out market trends and consumer behaviours. With the anticipation of this year's results, it is interesting to reflect on some of last year's insights around sustainability. What prevailed in 2017 and what will 2018 bring? In 2017, on-going polarization in societies caused a clear negative trend regarding the belief in a better future in all Nordic countries. Also consumer trust in companies has been greatly reduced compared to previous years. The greatest decay is seen in Norway, where the proportion of consumers with trust in companies decreases from 31% to 18%. The trust in companies is generally low in all Nordic countries. The peak is to be found in Finland with 34%. However, this still means that 66% have little or no trust at all. 
However, data also showed that companies do dare to communicate sustainability more and more. The food and beverage industry, both producers and retailers, are still the one that are seen and heard most within sustainability. With that, the hottest topics in communication about sustainability were climate change and diversity/equality. 
On a more positive note the importance of sustainability is also growing. More people than ever think of sustainability in the purchasing situation. In 2017 there was clear sign that Norway and Finland are gaining on Sweden in terms of the consumer awareness and behaviour around sustainability. Denmark has long been well-developed but more polarized, meaning that consumers in general have been divided into two major groups; those who care a lot about sustainability, and those who do not care at all. Danish consumers are overall less prone to decrease consumption than their Nordic neighbours. Which trends will dominate this year within sustainability? It's not too late yet to secure your ticket to the Awards Ceremonies in April.