Overview Company Description 
Solvak is a software development company which delivers outstanding software applications to our clients. We focus on customized software development by using the latest technologies. We have established ourselves as a top software development company by delivering High-quality software applications suitable to our customer needs. We focus on value and performance to drive our client’s digital transformations. Job Description 
Our company is looking for results-driven sales Agents to actively seek out and engage customer prospects, generate leads and meet sales goals. Duties will include sales presentations and product demonstrations, as well as negotiating contracts with potential clients. Key Objectives Present, promote and sell products/services using solid arguments to existing and prospective customers. Perform cost-benefit and needs analysis of the product to the existing/potential customers to meet their needs Establish, develop and maintain positive business and customer relationships Reach out to customer leads through cold calling OR Face to Face. Respond promptly to customer inquiries and complaints. Obtain and evaluate all relevant information to handle product and service inquiries Expedite the resolution of customer problems and complaints to maximize satisfaction Achieve agreed upon sales targets and outcomes within schedule Coordinate sales effort with team members and other departments Analyze the territory/market’s potential, track sales, and status reports Supply management with reports on customer needs, problems, interests, competitive activities, and potential for new products and services. Direct requests and unresolved issues to the designated members Communicate to the operations manager the required sales needs and improvements. Continuously improve through feedback Required Knowledge, Education, Skills, and Abilities Proven work experience as a sales representative OR Previous experience in sales-related fields with the private sector in a similar position is highly preferred. Excellent verbal, written and interpersonal communication skills (excellent communication and presentation skills). Demonstrable ability to identify customer needs and present benefits to meet customer needs and overcome objections. Demonstrable ability to obtain and analyze market information. Ability to work effectively with other regional functions/teams in support of the customers. Excellent selling, communication and negotiation skills Prioritizing, time management and organizational skills Selling and business acumen skills. Customer focused and able to build strong relationships. Results driven. Ability to create and deliver presentations tailored to the audience needs Relationship management skills and openness to feedback. Customer Service Skills: The customer is always right. You will need to be able to speak in a friendly way to customers and potential customers, listening to their needs and helping communicate options for them. Communication Skills: You will need to speak to customers about a product’s different features, and answer any questions they might have. Persistence: Not every customer is going to be a sale. Being able to bounce back if you lose a sale will be key for this job. How to Apply: How to Apply All suitably qualified and interested candidates are strongly encouraged to send an updated CV and application letter to Deadline: 31 st March 2018 
To apply for this job email your details to full-time 