Dist: 41,0 km Start: 07:10 End: 16:25 
John drove Josh and myself in darkness back to Coquille River. John and his partner Marta have been such great and helpful hosts, and Martas’s house could go for a designer’s museum! Thank you so much for looking after us both! I think John and Josh could have been grandfather and son – it was actually quite funny to go out on Friday evening with those two wonderful guys – one 28, the other 70 years old, and one half a head, the other a full head shorter than myself 🙂 
High tide was 6.40 am, the river bar this morning was on the outgoing tide calm on the surface, but still big swell on 2,40 m seas. It could be intimidating for anyone else, thank goodness not for Josh :-). 
After we left the reef area behind Coquille point, the big seas calmed down a little, and we made good progress. One whale spouted right in front of us, light rain, light to moderate headwind, still some seas going. A fishing boat was checking on us, but as usual, I was rather worried they would come too close on the large swell, and I waved them away with thumbs up. 
Things finally improved on the weather, wind and swell side, the sun was out – but now Josh’s rudder played up – once more…the issue was actually the thread in a metal piece of the rudder is simply not holding the screw in there after we had fixed that issue already once. On all my other kayaks, the screw held up fine in the thread! I fixed it temporary on the water, almost getting seasick on working looking down.I used some metal splints, which finally worked with about 30% well enough to let Josh paddle without much directional control problems in now low wind. It got occasionally stuck, but I could always free it again…truly not a pleasant situation on swell and no landing options. I was proud of Josh handling the rudder issue so well! And no sea sickness for him today, though around Coquille Point, it was already nasty with additionally many birds circling around us. But he had to learn how to pee while inside the kayak..doing it sitting was not possible (yet), so I held his kayak while Josh was kneeing backward on the seat and could relief himself. All good! 
It got even tougher for Josh to handle the kayak, as additionally bad luck, a screw holding the back band came off and he had to handle the kayak without back band support for the last 10 km…I decided to go in on Cape Blanco’s north side instead of around the rocky Cape to Port Orford, hoping to find some reasonable sheltered landing on the last corner, with swell from wsw and light headwinds. We threaded our way through the huge reef rocks, Josh always additionally handicapped with little rudder control and no back band…but that strong young man did really great! He kept his nerves, paddled strong and balanced, and I was sure he’d make even a small to moderate surf landing on the flat sandy beach. I went in first, almost hitting two tiny submerged reef rocks, but only almost. 
Though I was asking Josh to wait outside until I was landed and with my kayak off the surf zone, he already came in when I did not have my kayak secured, and I better ran to the left when I saw him surfing in with little rudder control a bit too close to the rocks to my content…but all good, I could catch him, and we gave each other a relieved hug that we were in safe with all those issues! Good guy! Good skills, good nerves, going strong, despite not too much sea experience. Whitewater seems to be a good school…! The only thing he could improve is to listen better to “his mom” when things go on the tougher side – right, Juli?? 🙂 
We had to make camp on top of the beach in the grass, as all sand would be gone on high tide. A wonderful view anyway! We fixed all issues with new and longer screw supplies out of my kit box, good to have a small selection… 
Tomorrow will be really easy, 1 m seas, low wind…hope to get to Gold Beach!