Introducing the top 50 Nintendo Switch games so far, as voted for by you 23/03/2018 
To celebrate the first anniversary of Nintendo Switch , we asked you to name your top 10 games for the console so far on Twitter. 
Hundreds of you made your votes count and we’ve rounded them all up and tallied all the votes to discover your collective top 50 games for Nintendo Switch. 
Without further ado, here are the top 50 Nintendo Switch games so far, as voted for by you! 
No matter where you come from, how old you are, if you're a panda or a carrot: turn up the volume and get ready to unleash your inner dancer! Subscribe to on 
Shantae embarks on her first full HD adventure! When a mysterious crime wave sweeps Sequin Land, it’s up to Half-Genie Hero Shantae to save the day! Subscribe to on 
Slither, coil and climb your way through the beautiful world of Haven Tor in Snake Pass, a unique physics-based, puzzle platform adventure for Nintendo Switch. Subscribe to on 45. Owlboy 
Owlboy is a story-driven platform adventure game, where you can fly and explore a brand new world in the clouds! Pick up your friends, and bring them with you as you explore the open skies. Subscribe to on 
Dive into the Netherworlds and rain millions of points of damage upon your enemies in Disgaea 5 Complete, a ridiculously over-the-top, turn-based strategy RPG on Nintendo Switch! Subscribe to on 
Boasting beautiful, hand-drawn animations and a re-orchestrated soundtrack, the cult classic returns with a unique blend of exploration, action and adventure! Subscribe to on 
Stand on the brink of discovery in Axiom Verge, a retro-inspired 2D action-exploration game where you travel through a hostile alien world. Subscribe to on 
As the acclaimed series celebrates its 30th anniversary, fight anytime, anywhere and challenge anyone with the ultimate version of the iconic Super Nintendo fighter that took the world by storm. Subscribe to on 
DRAGON BALL XENOVERSE 2 builds upon the highly popular DRAGON BALL XENOVERSE with enhanced graphics that will further immerse players into the largest and most detailed Dragon Ball world ever developed. Subscribe to on 
I am Setsuna is a powerfully nostalgic experience, blending a classic style of storytelling, battle system and gameplay. Subscribe to on 
Bob is just a normal human with no superpowers, but given the right tools he can do a lot. Misuse the tools and he can do even more! Subscribe to on 36. Oxenfree 
The critically acclaimed Oxenfree is a supernatural thriller about a group of friends who unwittingly open a ghostly rift. Subscribe to on 35. Night in the Woods 
College dropout Mae Borowski returns home to the crumbling former mining town of Possum Springs, seeking to resume her aimless former life and reconnect with the friends she left behind. But things aren't the same. Home seems different now and her friends have grown and changed. Leaves are falling and the wind is growing colder. Strange things are happening as the light fades. Subscribe to on 
Jump into the driver's seat of your anti-gravity vehicle and put your skills to the test in high octane competitions. Subscribe to on 33. EA SPORTS™ FIFA 18 
EA SPORTS™ FIFA 18 on Nintendo Switch is the most immersive, social, and authentic football game ever created for Nintendo players. Feature packed, you can now play the world’s game anytime, anywhere and in unique ways with EA SPORTS™ FIFA 18 on Nintendo Switch. Subscribe to on 32. L.A. Noire 
L.A. Noire is dark and violent crime thriller set against the backdrop of 1940’s Los Angeles. It includes the complete original game and all additional downloadable content plus new collectibles and detective suits to unlock, each with unique special abilities. 31. Enter the Gungeon 
Enter the Gungeon is a bullet hell dungeon crawler following a band of misfits seeking to shoot, loot, dodge roll and table-flip their way to personal absolution by reaching the legendary Gungeon’s ultimate treasure: the gun that can kill the past. Subscribe to on 
Settle it with pyrotechnics in Super Bomberman R, as the classic series makes its return on Nintendo Switch. While the rules are the same, the style is all-new, with 3D stages, high definition graphics and online multiplayer*. Subscribe to on 
Sonic Forces is the latest Sonic the Hedgehog game that lets you create a custom character with powerful gadgets, speed through ruined landscapes as Modern Sonic, and catapult past perilous platform as Classic Sonic. Subscribe to on 
Rayman Legends: Definitive Edition contains the acclaimed game as well as new exclusive content such as an updated Kung Foot experience, which now offers a Solo Mode and a Tournament Mode for pitting up to eight teams against each other. Subscribe to on 
Team up with friends to puff up your powers in Kirby Star Allies, a fantastical platforming adventure for up to four players! Subscribe to on 
Explore a world made of blocks as you gather, craft and build to defeat the evil Dragonlord in Dragon Quest Builders! Subscribe to on 25. Golf Story 
Golf Story combines the sheer excitement of golf with a serious story that plays out over eight different courses. Play the story of a golfer who is forced to give up all that he holds dear for one last shot at accomplishing his dreams. Subscribe to on 24. 1-2-Switch 
Lock eyes with your opponent and get ready to discover the many functions of the Joy-Con in 1-2-Switch! Subscribe to on 
Two puzzle game juggernauts collide as Tetris®, one of the largest-selling and recognised brands in gaming history, and Puyo Puyo™ from SEGA have combined to create a fun-to-play, fast-paced, competitive party game like no other! Subscribe to on 22. Overcooked: Special Edition 
Sharpen your knives and dust off your chef’s whites as you work as a team to prepare, cook and serve up a variety of tasty orders before the baying customers storm out in a huff. Can you manage multiple culinary tasks at a time and keep your cool in the kitchen when the temperature rises? Subscribe to on 21. SteamWorld Dig 2 
SteamWorld Dig 2 takes you on a platform mining adventure forged in Metroidvania flames. When an old trading town is struck by mysterious earthquakes, it’s up to a lone steambot and her unlikely companion to uncover what trembling terrors lie beneath. Subscribe to on 
Explore randomly generated worlds and build amazing things from the simplest of homes to the grandest of castes in Minecraft: Nintendo Switch Edition. Subscribe to on 
Unleash over-the-top-powerful Dynasty Warriors-style moves as renowned and original Fire Emblem characters, and issue strategic commands in the midst of battle as you fend off hordes of enemies with stunning attacks. Subscribe to on 
For Shovelry! For both new knights and Shovel Knight’s biggest fans, Shovel Knight: Treasure Trove includes the original Shovel Knight game, as well as all previously released campaign updates – even Shovel Knight: Specter of Torment! Subscribe to on 17. Bayonetta 
Originally released in 2010, the unforgettable first chapter of the Bayonetta saga introduced the world to "climax action", an explosive blend of dynamic action and saucy style. It arrived on Nintendo Switch in February alongside Bayonetta 2. 16. DOOM 
Slay hordes of relentless demons anytime, anywhere in DOOM, a brutally fun and fast-paced first-person shooter on Nintendo Switch. Blast your way through an intense single-player campaign, or crush your friends online* in numerous multiplayer modes. 15. Celeste 
Help Madeline survive her inner demons on her journey to the top of Celeste Mountain in this super-tight, hand-crafted platformer from the creators of multiplayer classic, TowerFall. Subscribe to on 
Arriving in September 2017, Pokkén Tournament DX brought an intense one-on-one Pokémon fighting game to Nintendo Switch! Subscribe to on 13. Snipperclips – Cut it out, together! 
Snipperclips – Cut it out, together! arrived on day one of the Nintendo Switch adventure and allowed you and your friends to solve puzzles by cutting each other into useful shapes. So many of you enjoyed this one so it’s easy to see why it’s made the cut. Subscribe to on 12. Bayonetta 2 
In this climactic sequel to the critically acclaimed Bayonetta action game, players will be on the edge of their seats from start to finish. Brimming with jaw-dropping battles and gorgeous cut scenes, this game never lets up on the action, and has been reborn on Nintendo Switch! 11. The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim® 
The open-world adventure from Bethesda Game Studios® where you can be anyone and do anything, now allows you to go anywhere – at home or on the go. It certainly struck a chord with you all, with the game just missing out on the top 10. Subscribe to on 
Take to the pitch for a fully-featured offline season mode, multiple game types, casual and competitive online matches*, and special “Mutators” that let you change the rules entirely. Plus, Mario, Luigi and Metroid-themed Battle-Cars are available on Nintendo Switch! Subscribe to on 9. Sonic Mania 
Relive the classic Sonic games of the past and race through new Zones and fully-reimagined classics, filled with a myriad of never-before-seen hidden paths and secrets. Thanks to Nintendo Switch, you can experience the ultimate celebration of past and future in Sonic Mania anytime, anywhere. Subscribe to on 8. Stardew Valley 
Ever since Joja Corporation came to town, the old ways of life have all but disappeared. The community centre, once the town’s most vibrant hub of activity, now lies in shambles. But the valley seems full of opportunity. With a little dedication, you might just be the one to restore Stardew Valley to greatness! Subscribe to on 7. ARMS 
ARMS is a unique multiplayer fighting game that lets you trade blows using extendable weaponised arms. It’s received lots of new characters, stages and ARMS since launch and with the online Party Crashes it’s still going strong! Subscribe to on 
In this enormous RPG, you explore an endless ocean of clouds, where the last remnants of civilisation live on the backs of colossal beasts called Titans. The Expansion Pass is also available, and has already started rolling its content out. Subscribe to on 5. Mario + Rabbids® Kingdom Battle 
The most unlikely team of heroes place in fifth position. Mario and friends team up with the Rabbids to restore order to the Mushroom Kingdom, battling through four twisted worlds filled with dynamic turn-based combat, challenging puzzles and unpredictable enemies. DK swings into action in the story DLC, launching this spring! Subscribe to on 
Traditional 4-on-4 turf battles return in this full sequel, along with returning modes, new stages, new fashions, new weapons and much more! Octo Expansion also arrives in the summer adding even more to this already jam-packed game! Subscribe to on 3. Mario Kart 8 Deluxe 
Whether you’re racing your family on the big screen in your living room, playing in the park, or visiting a friend’s place, Nintendo Switch lets you play Mario Kart any way you like! So many of you had this one on your list, so it’s no surprise to see it on the podium! Subscribe to on 2. Super Mario Odyssey 
It was a close one, but it’s Super Mario Odyssey that came in second place. The game sees Mario embark on a massive, globe-trotting 3D adventure, using his incredible new abilities to collect Moons so you can power up your airship, the Odyssey, and rescue Princess Peach from Bowser’s wedding plans! Subscribe to on 1. The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild 
The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild takes the top spot, collecting the most points from you all. It’s already picked up the Game of the Year from the Golden Joystick Awards and the Game Awards and now it has been voted the number one Nintendo Switch game by you! Subscribe to on YouTube 
So there you have it, your top 50 games on Nintendo Switch so far! It’s been an incredible year for the console and with more titles on the way, such as the recently announced Super Smash Bros. , there’s plenty to look forward to! 
Thanks to everyone who voted! 
*Internet connection required during online play. The registration and linkage of Nintendo Account and acceptance of the Nintendo Account Agreement and Privacy Policy are required. Online services require a Nintendo Account. Starting September 2018, some online services will also require a paid subscription. Paid online service availability may be limited based on location. Find out more about the paid online subscription service. Share on: