Ex-Large Corey Widmer declines Montana Soccer Corridor of Fame Ex-Large Corey Widmer declines Montana Soccer Corridor of Fame March 27, 2018 Trending No Comments 
Former New York Giants linebacker Corey Widmer mentioned concussions he suffered whereas taking part in soccer “destroyed my life.” 
(AP) 
Former New York Giants linebacker and Montana State star Corey Widmer has declined his nomination to the Montana Soccer Corridor of Fame, saying the game “destroyed my life.” 
Widmer mentioned after quite a few concussions, he fears he suffers from power traumatic encephalopathy, a degenerative mind illness. He has despair, reminiscence issues, suffers from temper swings and seeks to isolate himself. Just lately, he mentioned, his thumb has began twitching. 
“I am 49 years outdated, depressed to the Nth diploma however have some huge cash, and a few folks would possibly say it is nonetheless value it. I simply inform them to observe what they need for,” Widmer informed the Bozeman Each day Chronicle . “If somebody may’ve defined all of this to me after I was 14, I’d’ve given all of it again in a heartbeat. I’d’ve wished for one thing else.” 
The Bozeman native mentioned he could not in good conscience be part of Saturday’s banquet in Billings celebrating a sport that brought about nice struggling amongst his mates and that he believes endangers kids. 
“After I refused entry I needed to give a proof, and my rationalization is concussion,” Widmer informed Lee Newspapers of Montana. 
However he did not need to state his causes throughout the ceremony that inducted eight different members to the Montana corridor, together with former Detroit Lions tight finish Casey FitzSimmons and former Carolina Panthers and Baltimore Ravens defensive sort out Dwan Edwards. 
The banquet additionally honored the Petrino teaching tree that started with former Carroll Faculty soccer coach Bob Petrino and consists of his sons — Louisville coach Bobby Petrino and Idaho coach Paul Petrino. It additionally honored coaches who as soon as performed for Bob Petrino, a bunch that features Denver Broncos particular groups coordinator Tom McMahon. 


“I do not need to make some political assertion proper in the midst of their get together and benefit from some very good folks,” mentioned Widmer, who was a plaintiff within the NFL concussion lawsuit. 
However he mentioned he additionally could not keep silent anymore after studying a latest information story a couple of lawsuit filed by the household of a 16-year-old Belt Excessive Faculty pupil who suffered a concussion in a 2014 recreation and collapsed after taking part in the subsequent weekend, leaving him practically paralyzed and unable to talk. 
“That was the second that made me perceive,” he mentioned. He had taken a deliberate journey to Australia considering he’d “simply escape and stroll away from every little thing. I did not need the drama. 
“However after I acquired over there I simply acquired this overwhelming guilt, nervousness and was not sleeping,” he mentioned. “Day-after-day I used to be waking up enthusiastic about this.” 
So he got here again to Montana to elucidate himself and to induce mother and father to delay their kids’s participation in sort out soccer, perhaps even till their senior 12 months in highschool. He argued that letting kids in fifth by means of eighth grade take part in sort out soccer equates to baby endangerment. 
“If we are able to simply have mother and father take one other have a look at these children and the potential risks for probably the most prized possessions of their life, perhaps they might put that off for a number of years,” he mentioned. 
Widmer performed with the Giants from 1992 to 1999, ending with 271 tackles, 7.5 sacks and 4 interceptions. He was a standout defensive lineman at Montana State from 1987-91. Share this: 