Home » Taxation and Legislation » Asia Pacific » Features » China opens markets to avert trade war with the US Features 27 Mar 18 China opens markets to avert trade war with the US 
Amidst US threats to impose tariffs on Chinese steel and aluminium, the Chinese premier Li Keqiang said that China and the United States should keep an open line of communications as both countries should avoid an open trade war. 
At a conference on Monday, Li explained that China would treat foreign and Chinese companies equally, that his country would not force foreign companies to transfer technology and that they would strengthen intellectual property rights. In doing so, he responded to long-standing demands by Washington. 
The Wall Street Journal reported on Monday, citing unidentified sources, that the United States asked China to cut a tariff on US cars and to buy more US-made semiconductors. US companies should also get easier access to the Chinese financial sector. 
According to Reuters, US-made semiconductors account for just 1% of total Chinese semiconductors in 2017. Moreover, there is limited overlap between America-made semiconductors and those manufactured in South Korea and Taiwan, the largest semiconductor producers. Rational attitude 
"With regard to trade imbalances, China and the United States should adopt a pragmatic and rational attitude, promote balancing through expansion of trade, and stick to negotiations to resolve differences and friction," Li told the conference in Beijing according to reports on the state radio. 
The Chinese government is also finalising rules to allow foreign companies to hold a majority stake in Chinese companies, reports the Financial Times. 
The Chinese response did not seem to have an immediate effect on the Trump administration. Last Thursday, President Trump announced plans for tariffs on up to $60 billion of Chinese products in retaliation for Chinese trade imbalances. On Friday, China reacted by announcing plans to introduce additional duties on up to $3 billion of US imports. 
A growing number of US companies such as Apple, Microsoft, GM, Nike etc. are relying on China for a large part of their revenue. They could suffer from new Chinese duties and regulations. 
Negotiations between high-ranking officials are ongoing. It remains to be seen if the current climate will turn out to be a storm in a teacup or rather in the global economy. 
Image: Beijing after sunset 