Tuesday, March 27   
This month’s programme celebrates performance and video pioneer Joan Jonas and her current exhibition at Tate Modern. Tickets for the exhibition are available for just £10 from 18.00 onwards. Expect a vibrant mix of art, music, film, drop-in workshops and pop-up talks. 
Music Programmed by NTS Radio In the South Tanks NTS present the UK premiere of SAFE, an audio-visual collaboration between Warp Record’s Darkstar and filmmaker Cieron Magat. The ever eclectic Lukid will close the night, plus enjoy diverse and experimental soundscapes from Silvia Kastel. 
In the Terrace Bar, there will be ambient and dubwise selections from Kast, Dr Kruger and Fergus McDonald inspired by Joan Jonas’s musical influences. ​ 
Drawing Rituals Take part in experimental group drawing rituals with Art Macabre, inspired by the drawing techniques of Joan Jonas. Work with elongated sticks and repetitive mark-making and become part of a drawing performance as you work. 
Make or Break Memes, masks and mayhem! Join the University of Westminster in Tate Exchange to make, break and remake art in a series of creative chaotic workshops. 
(B)older Arts Have older women become the art world’s darlings? Join Deborah Coughlin in conversation with playwright, author and critic Bonnie Greer about the rise of older women artists and hear how we can learn from their successes at 19.30–20.15. 
Joan Jonas: They Come to Us without a Word II A multi-layered performance film from Joan Jonas. Discover an intricate web of ghost stories, projections, drawings, music and readings, evoking the fragility of nature in a rapidly changing environment. 
Unseen Self-Portrait Join Art Macabre to create a sensory portrait of yourself, inspired by the experimental and performative drawings of Joan Jonas. Use only your senses, intuition and memory to create your unseen self-portrait. 
Uniqlo 10 Minute Art Talks Look out for staff and volunteers from across Tate, who will be sharing their personal insights into works from the collection in just 10 minutes each. 
Collection Conversation Got an opinion about the art in Tate Modern? Our visitor experience teams will lead lively conversations around key artworks. 
Street Food Enjoy street food from local food vans and pop up bars all night including Tribeca Deli, Bittenclub and Where The Pancakes Are plus 2-4-1 cocktails all night.