Dist: 40,5 km Start: 08:10 End: 17:35 
Josh went out last night in dusk to find some campsite some fishermen were talking about to refill water, but came back in darkness with no success. I was already asleep, so we missed out to make a date when we’d be launching this morning… I was awake at 6.10 and called “Good morning!” to the other tent, with some response, and was thinking now we are on the same page when I will take my time and even have breakfast inside my tent…ok, Josh has still “the second day bonus” to take two hours from waking to launching… 🙂 tomorrow we should be on the water at 7 am. Winds may become quite strong in the afternoon, though from north-following. 
Launching and going around Cape Blanco this morning was dead-easy, the swell was low. I introduced Josh to the art of rock hopping, and he did just fine. Big whitewater might be somehow more scary, but different. We paddled along some sandy beach up to the headland before Port Orford, where more rocks and gaps were inviting to paddle inside or in between. A wonderful small cove let us in for a short beach break. We were in need for fresh water, but I was assuming we will easily make it to Gold Beach River mouth today…but when we left the Port Orford heads at their tip to go in a straight line across the wide bay, I thought no, this is not for today…today is sightseeing and exploring day! Let’s hug the coast as much as possible, fill up water at Port Orford, and see how far we get today…we could basically land everywhere in 1,20 m swell. 
Perfect decision, Josh was also broadly smiling, as he very much enjoyed hugging the coast as an almost “sea newbie”– who can blame him…as myself, I never get sick of exploring the coast…and already on the short stretch into Port Orford had a lot to offer! An old lifeboat station (?) in Nellies Cove was worth a climb, and next cove, a huge fat pillar showed it’s impressive height. Two gees were topping a shorter neighbor pillar, and a deer strolled along the green side of the cliffs. Not to talk about the many seal rocks all along to Heads…some we could pass in distance, some got disturbed by our presence and launched – sorry, guys! 
Port Orford has only a high pier to unload the catch, but two strong cranes to get to ships out of the water and on land on wheels. Quite interesting system! I’m wondering how often the ships are getting hauled out of the water? We found a water tap, and refilled our eight bags. My goal was now Sister’s Rocks, and there won’t be water. Actually wrong, we later camped on a beach with a stream, but without filter, I wouldn’t go here for natural water resources in these latitudes… 
We kept on hugging the coast, rock-hopped a lot, just a wonderful paddling day! The wind turned finally to the north, and strolling along was easy and pleasant on a sunny day! More seals, more rocks, all perfect! 
My goal was Sister’s Rock south beach, which would be perfectly sheltered on northerly wind and swell. We so much enjoyed the last stretch of lumpy bumpy water on the reflective swell around the big Sister’s Rocks, Josh was ahead, when I called him back – CAVE! I needed to go in there…it had a light in the end…a tunnel? Almost. The long wide cave was open at the end! Very impressive! A system of side caves with low ceiling was tempting to go in, but not today…not in these boats… 
We found a wonderful easy landing beach, made camp, and went exploring…and found…what? The end of the long open tunnel cave by foot! Also a very impressive view from that end! All in all, an 1-A class sea kayaking day with nice company! Thank for paddling with me, Josh! And no boat repairs this night…