Get ready for the ARMS Global Testpunch this weekend! 26/03/2018 
ARMS for Nintendo Switch lets you trade blows using extendable arms in a unique multiplayer fighting game! Find out more 
Ready to punch your way to the top? The ARMS Global Testpunch returns on Nintendo Switch this weekend for some competitive, fist-flinging action…and you can join the fun for free*! 
During the Testpunch, you’ll battle it out against other players online** and trade blows using extendable weaponised arms. A selection of fighters including Spring Man, Ribbon Girl, Ninjara and more will be available for you to try out. 
Everything kicks – er…punches? – off this Saturday March 31st, at 05:00 BST/UK time, and you’ll be able to play as much ARMS as you want until the Testpunch ends at 04:59 BST/UK time on Tuesday April 3rd. That’s a lot of ARMS! 
You can get ready right now, so you can get scrapping straight away when the time comes. All you need to be able to take part is a Nintendo Switch, an internet connection, a Nintendo Account and the free* ARMS Global Testpunch software from Nintendo eShop . 
Need to create a Nintendo Account? We’ve got you covered. Simply head on over to the Create a Nintendo Account page and follow the instructions. Once you have that you can download the software from Nintendo eShop on your Nintendo Switch or via the ARMS gamepage ***. 
Fought in a previous ARMS Global Testpunch? You can redownload the software by visiting the Account Information page in Nintendo eShop on your Nintendo Switch. 
New to ARMS? Check out our Tip Hit videos below to learn about key fighting techniques, how to deal with tricky opponents, and the different types ARMS you can use! Subscribe to on YouTube 
Check out the ARMS website for more info about the game, and keep an eye on our ARMS UK Facebook page and Nintendo Versus UK Twitter account for further updates. 
ARMS is available in shops and as a downloadable version from Nintendo eShop on Nintendo Switch now. The neon yellow Joy-Con Pair, neon yellow Joy-Con Straps and Joy-Con AA Battery Pack Pair accessories are also available. You can also save 33% on ARMS until April 5th as part of our Spring into Action Sale . 
*Broadband internet connection required. The registration and linkage of Nintendo Account and acceptance of the Nintendo Account Agreement and Privacy Policy are required. 
**Internet connection required during online play. The registration and linkage of Nintendo Account and acceptance of the Nintendo Account Agreement and Privacy Policy are required. Online services require a Nintendo Account. Starting September 2018, some online services will also require a paid membership. Paid online service availability may be limited based on location. Find out more about the paid online subscription service. 
***To be able to purchase download games or download demos and free software from Nintendo eShop on the official website, you'll need to have a Nintendo Account which is linked to your Nintendo Switch console. You'll need to have your console registered as the active console for downloads for your Nintendo Account by visiting Nintendo eShop on the device you wish to download on at least once. For automatic download, your system must be updated and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. To find out more, visit our Support section . Purchases made or demo downloads activated through the Nintendo website are processed via Nintendo eShop. Share on: