Dark Phoenix and New Mutants postponed Two X-Men movies see their release dates pushed back. 1 comment 
According to the editor in chief of The Tracking Board, Jeff Sneider, both X-Men: Dark Phoenix and The New Mutants have been pushed back. 
X-men: Dark Phoenix, which is about Jean Grey as she begins to develop incredible powers that corrupt and turn her into a, you guessed it, Dark Phoenix, was slated to be released November 2, 2018. Now, if Jeff Sneider's tweet is to be believed, this date has been pushed all the way back to Valentine's Day 2019. 
The New Mutants, which is about five young mutants discovering their abilities while being held in a secret facility against their will, fighting to escape their pasts and save themselves, starring Maisie Williams (Arya Stark, with her "sister" Sophie "Sansa Stark" Turner starring as Jean Grey in X-men: Dark Phoenix), was slated for release on February 22, 2019, but has now been postponed to August 2, 2019. 
No explanation has been given for the new dates, but we'd speculate that The New Mutants has been moved back to make way for Dark Pheonix, though why that movie was pushed back remains unclear. 1 comment ActionJackson on the 27th of March 2018 at 19:02. That will be disney making plans to ruin yet another franchise haven't they got a Monopolys commission or something in the states??? Disney now officially own MOST peoples childhoods favourites and memories, I bet they will find someway of charging us for seeing a film or TV show and playing with our TOYS yeah ere ya go Disney you charge for everything else and bleed us all dry in your attempt total over the entire world so try and charge us for our memories OR Mickey and Donald are secretly working on a mind altering drug that all us cool kids who know better and know how 'The Infinity Gauntlett' and how the Marvel universe really should be, will infect us and change our memories and perception of the worlds biggest evil empire (and I dont mean Tesco express people its Disney!!!) I have an appointment with a special 'head doctor'now so must go toodles!!!!