
https://sectorial.bandcamp.com About: 
Sectorial is a metal band from Boyarka, Ukraine, formed in 2000. After several changes of its participants, the final lineup was established in 2010. Current genre can be described as Blackened Death, Ethnic Metal. 
Sectorial’s debut EP “Cerebrum Necrosis Est It In Nobis” came out in January, 2008. In its support, the band has played 20 shows in different cities of Ukraine. “Cerebrum Necrosis Est It In Nobis” premiere took place at Radio ROKS, as well as at Radio Carcoma (Spain). In September 2008, Sectorial took 4th place at The Global Battle of The Bands, Kyiv. With EPs “Boiler” and “Controlled Insane” in 2009, band has played approx. 40 shows in Ukraine and Russia. 
The debut full-length album “Erase and Reborn the Humanity” was released in February 2012 via Metal Scrap Records. In support of LP, Sectorial went on the joint Ukrainian tour with Crusher, performed at the festival Metal Heads` Mission XIII and went on the two-week tour (Ukraine — Moldova — Russia) with Infest (FR). 
In August 2015, Sectorial released their second full-length album “We Are the Titan’s Rising Ashes” via Noizr Productions. The record’s exclusive presentation was held on October 17 at the Noizr Fest, Kyiv. On the same day, there was a premiere of the debut music video for the song “Tree Eater”. Later band released pro-live video “Young Shoots”, filmed during performance at the festival. 
In December 2015, Sectorial won two awards in categories “Best Metal Album” for LP “We Are The Titan’s Rising Ashes” and “Best Metal Video” for the clip “Tree Eater” at The Best Ukrainian Metal Act 2015 contest. 
In 2016, the band gave several shows in Ukraine, and also performed at the Kilkim Žaibu festival in Lithuania, sharing the stage with such metal acts as Venom, Nifelheim, Schirenc Plays Pungent Stench, Ereb Altor and others. 
Since 2017 till now, Sectorial is working on material for the new third full-length album, continuing the concert activity. Discography: 
“Cerebrum Necrosis Est It In Nobis”, EP, 2008 
“Boiler”, EP, 2009 
“Erase and Reborn the Humanity”, full-length, 2012 
“We Are the Titan’s Rising Ashes”, full-length, 2015 