Dist: 33,2 km Start: 07:35 End: 12:55 
Josh cut his delay time this morning at least already to half – only 35 min over the agreed launching time…hehehe 🙂 still can’t get used to his packing system, dumping the bags somewhere in the wet sand, stuffing them wet and sandy into the hatches with the help of his foot…as long as my kayak is not bursting…at least he has now a bunch of suitable fabric and suitable sized bags. All good. Different people, different packing styles. maybe I’m too picky with my gear… 
We still have to fix a small dent in the side of the bow I made while approching him to raft up, which probably leaks also a bit. Fragile boats…! But I love them, and josh eventually feels comfortable in his kayak, too. No rudder issues, no back band issues to fix today…and no excuses “to have a slower or faster” boat! 
We enjoyed the cruise close to the coast, dipping behind every possible reef. Today’s swell was slight bit larger than yesterday, still I felt comfortable paddling “topless” as usual in low winds. But sneaking behind one reef gave me a warning not to take it too lightly…one a bit rougher clapotis wave behind a large rock mad me bracing, and my PFD, strapped as usual to the back deck, was dangling to the side…ok, yes, I’ll listen and will put it on (for now…), and the helmet……Josh came also a bit too close behind me into the reef, also something he has to learn, but all good. 
Some large rolling swell waves in a shallow sandy reef area before the Rogue River at Gold Beach gave us some attention not to lose the look to the sea, as it was breaking here and there out of nowhere. Still soft topplings, but you never know…once past the river mouth, we sat on a wonderful south going current with the wind also breezing up now to easy 20 knots and more, it was now surfing time at high ground speed! Doing nothing, we got blown and washed along with 7-8 km/h, passing the horizontally stretched crab pot buoys at high speed. Paddling normally, we might get 10-11 km/h, and with catching the still low surf waves, it would be 15 km/h…wonderful! My heart was beating hard out of joy, sunshine inside and outside…and I happily surfed along! 
Josh needed a bit more of inspiration, as he for good reason didn’t feel like competing with me initially in open ocean surfing…twice I was gone and eventualy waiting for him to catch up, asking hime if he likes to know anything…? You just need to learn to “dance with the waves now”…we had that dancing theme already once before at John’s, when I was asking him if he likes to dance, his answer was rather simple: “I like women!” 
I teased him if he would be able to beat me in open ocean surfing today, he can call himself a sea kayaker tonight :-)…and off he was! I let him go, catching up with my energy after two longer sessions myself. I saw Josh only bracing initially once, and then he caught one wave after the other, with obvious pleasure and joy. Not that he hasn’t been kayak surfing before, but only in short small boats and back to the beach… 
But as I knew he would be good, I let him go another time once we caught up again, his eyes and face emotinless hidden behind his sunglasses and hat. But Ii knew he had his blast, especially with me (initially on purpose) staying behind…I have no illusion once he got the hang of it, he’d be faster. And I loved to see his explosive development in open ocean surfing! Occasionally after catching up again, I started off together with him, but to give him maximum concentration on the now larger following waves, we better did not directly compete…and I surrendered to his strengh and fast developing open ocean surfing skills anyway :-)…good guy! Paddling light-handed, good body feeling and boat control…which “coach” doesn’t like to have such a “student”? 
Some nasty reflective waves added to the fun along Cape San Sebastian, but Josh surfed through undeterred, leading with obvious pleasure and joy the old lady around the Cape…once in shelter, we rafted up, laid back on our kayaks, and I complimented him with saying he has now passed the basic “four-days advanced sea kayaking crash course”…the fine tuning and icing on the cake will come the next days…skills like how to make his paddling partner a perfect dinner, packing sandfree and such…hehehe…this night’s dinner was actually already on the better side! We agreed he’d take over that job in return for borrowing my kayak while I’d be checking maps, weather fore casts and writing my updates 🙂 
We landed relatively early in the perfectly sheltered Hunter’s Cove after 30 km, but it was time to get off the water now with easy 25 knots following winds. Next coves won’t be as nice as this one… 
We estimated with some effort the high tide mark on the wet beach, and squeezed close to the logs, as high as possible. The tide will be raising the next days, and I was not 100% sure if we’d stay dry here…but it showed later ample space at 1,70 m at 22.30h, even for 2 m the next days. 
We set out for a wonderful hike to the cliffs of Cape San Sebastian, and enjoyed some sunshine of top of windy and chilly, but stunning cliff formations. The forecast eventually turned out to be too strong winds (up to 25-30 knots north) and too high seas (2 m) tomorrow, a combination I might marginally have taken on, but especially not with Josh on his fifth day on the open sea. No words about sea sickness any more…good to sleep in tomorrow, and to look after our sore bodies!