These 16 teams will compete for the title of Splatoon European Champions live on 31st March 19/03/2018 
Traditional 4-on-4 turf battles return in Splatoon 2 for Nintendo Switch, along with new stages, new fashions and new weapons! Find out more 
Not long to go now, Inklings! The Splatoon European Championship kicks off at Polymanga in Switzerland from March 30th, with the final rounds taking place on March 31st. 
16 of Europe’s best Splatoon 2 teams will prep their Nintendo Switch consoles, sharpen their skills and splat it out for ultimate glory! It’s set to be a showdown of splat-tastic proportions, and we’ll be covering the tournament from start to finish on our various channels. Subscribe to on YouTube 
The tournament kicks off with a pre-qualification round on 30th March and the morning of 31st March, where the 16 attending teams will battle it out for a coveted spot in the final four. Follow @NintendoVSUK for frequent updates on these pre-qualification rounds! 
Then, on 31st March at 12:00 (UK time), the gripping semi-final and final will be broadcast live on Nintendo UK’s YouTube channel and on Twitch , with members of the winning team walking away with a special trophy and jersey, and the title of European Splatoon Champions. 
The competing teams vying for glory in the live semi-final and final from 12:00 (UK time) on 31st March are: 
UK: Team Mako (Winner of UK championship) and 4D (Winner of wildcard tournament) Germany: Gucci Gang (Winner of German championship) and Hallo! (Runners up) France: Alliance Rogue (Winner of French championship) and EL Firmament (Runners up) Spain: Spanish Army (Winner of Spanish championship) and Archicosmus (Runners up) Italy: NinPlayers (Winner of Italian championship) and CrossInk (Winner of online Italian championship) Netherlands: Polderlantis (Winner of Dutch championship) and Team.Extensions (Runners up) Belgium: Overtime (Winner of Belgian championship) Portugal: Hexagone (Winner of Portuguese championship) Russia: Red Ink (Winner of Russian championship) and Splat Tim (Runners up) 
Before the tournament’s final stages commence, Polymanga will host a special virtual concert. Pearl and Marina, of the game’s pop idol-duo Off the Hook, will appear onstage to sing along to a series of tracks and perform their slickest choreographed moves, all accompanied by a live band. The whole concert will be livestreamed on Nintendo UK’s YouTube channel and on Twitch , and will begin at 11:00 (UK time). 
Don’t miss the finest Splatoon 2 teams from across Europe battling it out at the Splatoon European Championship. The first rounds take place on 30th and 31st March, with the climactic semi-final and final streamed live on 31st March. The special Off the Hook concert starts at 11:00 (UK time), followed by the livestreamed tournament kicking off at 12.00 (UK time); both will be livestreamed on Nintendo UK’s YouTube and Twitch channels. Share on: