Car wash attendant sells client’s car, spends proceeds on wedding By 0 SHARE 
A car wash attendant, Mohammed Chado, has been arrested by the police in Abuja for allegedly selling a year 2000 model of Toyota Camry that a client had asked him to wash. The suspect, who was working at a car wash outlet in Apo, Abuja, allegedly made away with the car and sold it for N450,000, which he reportedly used to marry a wife. Chado, 29, was among the 40 crime suspects paraded yesterday by the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory, Sadiq Bello. The police boss said: “Chado was arrested at Batafe village in Niger State where he was hiding after he sold a Toyota Camry 2000 model that was given to him for washing. The stolen car has been recovered.” 
Chado, in an interview with newsmen, explained that he spent N300,000 on his wedding and expended the balance on feeding and other needs. The suspect said: “I gave the money to my family to buy the needed wedding items, then I spent the balance on feeding myself for one year.” Giving a summary of arms recovered from the other crime suspects, the police boss said they include 38 English pump action guns, 13 dane guns, one fabricated revolver; 25 fabricated modified pump action, one double-barreled gun and 22 cartridges. Other exhibits allegedly recovered are 11 vehicles, three cutlasses, eight fabricated pistols, nine television sets, one desktop monitor, three knives, and one toy gun. Meanwhile, men of Nigeria Police Force Area ‘C’ Command Surulere, Lagos, have arrested a 42-year-old man, Mr. Seyi Olowookere, for allegedly molesting a 12-year-old student (name withheld). The victim was said to have interest in hip-hop music and needed a mentor and the suspect promised to introduce him to those who are into hip-hop music. According to the victim, he was invited to the suspect’s house in Surulere for him to be introduced to hip-hop musicians as agreed. When he got there, Seyi asked the boy to come inside his one room apartment. Immediately he entered, the suspect locked the door, used a chair to block the door and started to undress himself while asking the victim to do the same, which he refused. He forced himself on the boy and allegedly committed sodomy. Related 