Weekly download news 29/03/2018 
You can download new games, applications and other content from Nintendo eShop on your Nintendo Switch , Nintendo 3DS family system or Wii U , and also via this website*. Scroll down to see what’s new this week, visit the gamepages to see what purchase options are available or find more information on downloadable games for your Nintendo systems. Nintendo eShop sale: Spring into Action Sale 
Save up to 86% on a great selection of action-packed games on Nintendo Switch, Nintendo 3DS family systems and Wii U! 
See sale details ARMS Global Testpunch 
Starting from 05:00 (BST/UK time) on March 31st, you’ll be able to enjoy as much free** fist-flinging fun as you want until the Testpunch ends at 04:59 (BST/UK time) on April 3rd! To participate, simply download the free ARMS Global Testpunch demo in Nintendo eShop on Nintendo Switch or via the ARMS gamepage . Download versions of packaged software 
Zombillie (Nintendo Switch) Nintendo 3DS HOME Menu themes 
Check out the latest Nintendo 3DS HOME Menu themes at our New Releases page. HOME Menu themes are available to download from the Theme Shop on your system, and new themes are added regularly. Nintendo Account 
Don't have a Nintendo Account yet? Visit https://accounts.nintendo.com to sign up for free. With a Nintendo Account, you can also take advantage of the My Nintendo rewards programme and earn points when you purchase eligible digital games from Nintendo eShop, use Nintendo apps on your smart device or even when you simply sign into Nintendo services such as Nintendo eShop. 
Catch up on some of the great downloadable games of recent months with our highlights video playlist below! YouTube 
Please check Nintendo eShop or visit the gamepages to get the latest pricing information. 
Nintendo Account registration required to download demos from Nintendo eShop on Nintendo Switch. Nintendo Network ID registration required to download demos from Nintendo eShop on Nintendo 3DS family systems and Wii U. Terms and conditions apply. 
*To be able to purchase download games or download demos and free software from Nintendo eShop on the official website, you'll need to have a Nintendo Account, and you'll need to have visited the Nintendo eShop on the device you wish to download on at least once. If you plan to download on a Wii U or a Nintendo 3DS family system, the Nintendo Account must also be linked to a Nintendo Network ID and your funds usable through the Nintendo Account must be merged with the funds tied to your Nintendo Network ID. For automatic download, your system must be updated and connected to the internet with automatic downloads enabled, and it must have enough storage to complete the download. To find out more, visit our Support section . Purchases made or demo downloads activated through the Nintendo website are processed via Nintendo eShop. Share on: