Media Kit (DK) Country Director of Sales – Denmark 
Are you a driven commercial leader, motivated by working with fantastic hotels and exploring business opportunities to deliver results? Do you have demonstrated success in selling to the best of the best and retaining them as customer over years? 
We are looking for the right person to lead our Team in Denmark as Country Director of Sales. The role is responsible for developing, directing and controlling related sales activities to ensure revenue, growth and profitability targets are achieved. This position serves as a key member of the Nordic Sales leadership team and contributes to the development of the overall commercial business strategy. This role will lead a sales team of motivated and active salespersons and have full responsibility for the market in Denmark. You will be located in Copenhagen and report to the Area Director of Sales Nordics. 
Key Responsibilities: Pro-actively generates and converts opportunities to maximize business and revenue Lead the needs of each hotel within the country in order to develop and implement and oversee sales strategies to meet their needs Lead and continue to set, communicate, and raise expectations of Danish team and individual performance; motivating and supporting efforts to achieve goals while upholding organizational beliefs and standards Drive local/global activities in support of brand promotions and marketing campaigns To support and work alongside the Regional Director / District Director (Operations) to drive strategic commercial activity Be the key sales support and communicator for hotels General Managers to wider (global) stakeholders to support the commercial need Be a brand sales expert for the company portfolio, leveraging the brand programs, resources, tools and initiatives Encourage and support a fun selling environment that fosters an Every Moment Matters culture of sales excellence. Create an environment for a happy and productive country sales team who are recognized for goal achievement. Produces, implements, controls country sales activity plan and country sales budget plan within budgetary guidelines in order to ensure the Revenue Plan objectives are achieved 
Required Skills and Experience Experience in managing a prospect through all sales cycles: from generating leads, fostering relationships, uncovering the needs, delivering the value proposition, positioning the product to client needs, negotiating pricing / contracts and closing the business. Demonstrated ability to establish and maintain effective relationships and partnerships with clients, key stakeholders and cross-functional teams. We require strong leadership, planning and organization, analytics, decision making and problem solving skills Minimum of 5-7 years of business development leadership experience or related sales management experience Track record of exceeding assigned sales quotas, in contiguous, multiple years University graduate qualification or equivalent Excellent ability to communicate verbal and written in Danish as well as English Ability to travel Experience from the hospitality travel or service related industries Experience of Salesforce.com or other CRM tools 
Additional Information 
Want to apply: 
Application deadline: 12 April 2018. Suitable candidates will be called forward for interviews throughout the entire recruitment process. 
Application: Please submit your application including a letter of motivation and a CV in English Through the following website https://www.recruto.se/apps/portal/radissonhotels 

Contact details: Anette Ravn Jensen; Area Director of Sales Nordics +45 3234 4181 
Terms: 
Type of employment: Probation position, with a 3-month probationary period. 
Working hours: Full-time 
Location: This position is located in Copenhagen, Denmark 

Radisson Hotel Group™ (formerly Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group) is one of the world’s largest hotel groups with eight distinctive hotel brands, more than 1,400 hotels in operation and under development around the world. The Radisson Hotel Group portfolio includes Radisson Collection™, Radisson Blu®, Radisson®, Radisson RED®, Park Plaza®, Park Inn® by Radisson, Country Inn & Suites® by Radisson and Prizeotel. Guests can benefit from the newly rebranded Radisson Rewards™ (formerly Club Carlson SM), a global rewards program that delivers unique and personalized ways to create memorable moments that matter to our guests. Radisson Rewards offers exceptional loyalty benefits for our guests, meeting planners, travel agents and business partners. Radisson Meetings™ offers a variety of fully-equipped meeting and event venues featuring fast free Wi-Fi, A/V technology and onsite contacts designed to make every event unique. More than 95,000 global team members work for the Radisson Hotel Group and at the hotels licensed to operate in its systems. The company is headquartered in Brussels, Minneapolis and Singapore. Udløber: 12.04.2018