Further details revealed about Code Vein Bandai Namco sheds some light on its vampiric Action-RPG. Text: Islem Sharouda Published on the 29th of Mar 2018 at 15 
Bandai Namco has revealed further information about the characters, story and background of Code Vein today. Spoiler Alert!! If you want to keep the mystery about the adventure in which you will be immersed, we do not advise you to continue reading this piece. 
First, we got to know more about the famous Revenants, and the most important of them, the main character. These immortal warriors were created as a result of the Great Collapse, a disaster that nearly eradicated all life on Earth. The Revenants are dead people who have been injected with the Biological Organ Regenerative Parasite, offering in addition to a new life some superhuman abilities, in exchange for their memories. 
Which brings us to the second point, the reason for our adventure. We will be asked to choose a companion among the Residents of Vein to go in search of your memory but also an escape from this new world that has descended into madness. 
As one might suspect, this apocalyptic world is far from idyllic. The blood springs and blood beads, which offer considerable powers, have ended up establishing a hierarchy where the weaker serve as slaves for the strongest who are always looking for more power. 
Here is how your story will begin: 
"After his fight against the Queen, the protagonist wakes up in an unknown area, a collapsed city and has lost his memory. Io was beside him when he has awakened from his sleep, a woman that already knows about his power to revitalize scorched blood springs, which can be found all around the city. 
Io and the protagonist are captured by a group of Revenants who hold Io as a hostage and force the protagonist to search for blood beads in the underground. 
After he has left the underground, the protagonist finds out that the Revenants are already disbanding, as they lose their minds because of the inserted miasma and the thirst for blood. The lost Revenants attack the protagonist, but Louis suddenly appears and supports him in the fight and together they defeat the Revenants, so that Louis can then guide the protagonist to the base." 
Bandai Namco also shared some new images from the game which is scheduled for release on PC, PS4, and Xbox One later this year. Related texts