Iranian granted U.S. visa to help brother with most cancers regardless of journey ban Iranian granted U.S. visa to help brother with most cancers regardless of journey ban March 30, 2018 Trending No Comments 
NEW YORK (Reuters) – The U.S. State Division granted a visa to a person in Iran hoping to donate bone marrow to his U.S. citizen brother with blood most cancers, acquiring a uncommon waiver to President Donald Trump’s journey ban, the household’s lawyer mentioned on Thursday. Affected person Maziar Hashemi (L), who has the most cancers Myelodysplastic syndrome, and his spouse Fereshteh discuss after assembly along with his transplant physician at a hospital in Boston, Massachusetts, U.S., March 26, 2018. REUTERS/Brian Snyder 
Mahsa Khanbabai, a lawyer primarily based in Massachusetts, mentioned she obtained a name on Thursday from the consulate in Yerevan, Armenia the place Kamiar Hashemi had utilized for a visa in February after he realized he was a uncommon 100 p.c match for a transplant that might probably save his brother’s life. 
The standing of the visa software was “refused” on the Division’s web site however Khanbabai mentioned she was informed on the decision waiver had been granted, two days after Reuters first reported on the case, and that Hashemi ought to make preparations to journey to Armenia to select it up. 
The State Division by a spokeswoman mentioned it was unable to touch upon a selected visa case. 
Trump’s journey ban, which the U.S. Supreme Court docket allowed to enter impact on Dec. eight after months of authorized wrangling, places everlasting bars on most vacationers to america from Iran, Libya, Syria, Yemen, Somalia, Chad and North Korea, in addition to sure authorities officers from Venezuela. Though the ban permits for case-by-case waivers to be granted, attorneys and candidates say the method is opaque with few clear pointers on apply and why waivers are, or aren’t, granted. 
For the reason that ban took impact, the State Division informed Reuters greater than 375 waivers have been authorised, however declined to say for which international locations and out of what number of purposes. 
“It’s unlucky that a lot effort had to enter getting only one, clearly pressing, visa authorised,” mentioned Khanbabai. “There are literally thousands of individuals are caught, additionally with pressing instances, with no thought what is going on.” Reporting by Mica Rosenberg in New York; Enhancing by James Dalgleish Share this: 