Sokon 
During an event in tech capital of the world, Silicon Valley, SF Motors, a subsidiary of the Chinese car manufacturer Sokon Motors, presented its first high-end luxury cross-over EV. It’s a 300 miles autonomy, 1000 horse power, under-3-second-to-100 km/h vehicle that seems to be destined to the US market. Pre-orders would start end of 2018, first deliveries in 2019. Semi-autonomous capacity will be added via software updates in 2020. Another one? 
After all the fancy launches of Byton, Lucid, Farady, Polestar (and probably another handful of new brands), one would wonder what the future OEM landscape will look like & whether all of these new mini EV-manufacturing ecosystems will work out. 
In case of SF Motors, the ecosystem is a combination of Chinese manufacturing, Michigan University, who developed the autonomous driving technology for the brand. The company also acquired the former AM General plant in Indiana and Inevit, a battery producer that’s run by an ex-Tesla founder, Martin Eberhard. Good pedigree, it looks like. 
SF tells the press that one of their key sales arguments will be the fact that they’ll actually be capable of hitting the targets in terms of production capacity and timing. “Our schedule is tight” says John Zhang, SF’s CEO, but the company is confident to deliver on time. The industry is changing indeed 
Every current and future automaker seems to be developing vehicles and technologies in a bit of a different way, with various partnerships and different value proposals : connectivity, range, speed, luxury, horse power, … The only point everyone agrees on, is that in about 10 years, the auto industry will look different from today’s. People like Bob Lutz (ex-GM, Chrysler, Ford, BMW) is quite radical: “… we are approaching the end of the line for the automobile”. Good stuff for the science fiction amateurs amongst us. About Sokon 
Chongqing Sokon Industry Group, long for Sokon, is a Chinese manufacturer, active in the research and development, manufacturing and sales of cars, engines and accessories as well as the provision of related services. Sokon is well known for its production of SUV’s, MPV’s, cross passenger cars and commercial vehicles. It distributes its products within domestic market and to overseas markets. Authored by: Yves Helven 