KMD Technology Consultant Graduate Program KMD A/S Graduate/trainee Storkøbenhavn 
We are looking for the best and the brightest graduates to join our Technology Consultant Graduate Program starting in September 2018. 
Do you combine technological know-how and coding skills with a flair for business and a strong will to succeed? Then get your career off to a flying start as a Technology Consultant working with large-scale clients using all the expertise and experience of KMD put at your disposal. 
Deliver great results in the cross-field between IT and business At Denmark’s largest IT-company, you will work with solutions that impact every one of us. We are behind most of the IT-systems that make Denmark run, and our clients are large and heavily reliant on IT. By joining our 1 year Technology Consultants Graduate Program you will be working at the heart of their businesses after you have completed your initial KMD training and a C# certification. If you choose KMD, you are permanently employed from the start and you will be an important asset to KMD for many years to come. 
Working at our clients as a Technology Consultant, we have planned an intensive and interesting program. The program contains elements of ‘on the job training’ which will cover : Training in analysis, design, implementation, deployment, maintenance and development of complex and business critical IT-solution Together with experienced consultants learn how to advise on enterprise and IT-architecture Development and testing of solutions in key technologies like Microsoft/Azure, Java/AWS, Open Source and others Taking part in occasional sales efforts alongside your daily work with your clients. 
To succeed, you use your technological insight and business flair together with your knowledge of which KMD products and services would benefit the client. You will have the constant support and commitment of your team and closest leaders. Here, your leaders stand behind you, not in your way, allowing you the freedom and responsibility you need to perform to your very best – for the benefit of your clients, society and your own rapid career development. 
As a graduate at KMD a personal mentor will support you and you will be part of a professional and valuable network with other graduates and KMD’s Young Professional network with high-educated and ambitious younger colleagues across the organization. 
You will have great impact on your career development and during the last part of the program, you will be able to specialize within one of the areas you would like to work in the future e.g. project management, software development or test management. 
Recently graduates with strong potential You are a recently graduated with top-of-class academic results within IT, mathematics, finance, engineering or similar. In addition, you must have experience developing code in at least one programming language, such as C# or Java, and broad knowledge of the current technology landscape. 
As a person you are ambitious and motivated by the desire to deliver above expectations with your team. On top of this, you are: Energetic and willing to put in the effort required to learn and to succeed A convincing communicator with a strong analytical mind Curious with an outgoing attitude Fluent in Danish and English. 
As your career quickly progresses, we will expect you to handle more complex tasks and to act as mentor and coach for less experienced Technology Consultants. 
Information meetings If you are curious to know more about KMD’s Technology Consultant Graduate Program, then participate in one of our information meetings at KMD’s offices in: Ballerup: Tuesday, April 10, 6 p.m. Aarhus: Wednesday, April 11, 4 p.m. Aalborg: Thursday, April 12, 4 p.m. 
Please sign up for KMDgraduateday before April 3 and let us know in which city you will be participating. 
How to apply Visit http://www.kmd.dk/graduate and apply by filling in the application form before April 27. Upload your CV, and a motivation letter, which expresses why we should choose you for our Technology Consultant Graduate Program. Remember to attach your certificates (including your grades) when you upload your application. If you have not finished your Master’s yet please upload your latest grades. 
We are continuously calling candidates in for interview, so send your application as soon as possible. Ansøgningsfrist d. 27.04.2018 2018-04-27 00:00:00