World Battle II soldier useless Fergus Anckorn PoW magician | Obituaries | Information World Battle II soldier useless Fergus Anckorn PoW magician | Obituaries | Information March 31, 2018 Trending No Comments REX / SHUTTERSTOCK 
CONJUROR OF THE KWAI: Fergus Anckorn’s magic tips helped him survive the Burma Railway 
It’s not shocking he as soon as remarked that, “Every single day is a surprise to me”. 
Whereas luck was definitely on his facet, Fergus’s ability as a magician additionally helped to maintain him alive. 
Throughout the three years he was imprisoned in a brutal Japanese PoW camp he would recurrently carry out tips in entrance of his captors to earn important further meals for his ravenous fellow prisoners. 
In consequence, he turned generally known as the Magican of the Kwai, after the infamous river the place 1000’s of Allied PoWs laboured and died. Associated articles 
Extra not too long ago, Fergus was the inspiration for Britain’s Bought Expertise winner Richard Jones, who recounted his exceptional story by a collection of card tips. 
Born in Dunton Inexperienced, close to Sevenoaks, Fergus Gordon Anckorn was given his first magic set aged 4 and carried out tips at events. 
In 1936 he turned the youngest member of the Magic Circle. 
On the outbreak of battle in 1939, he enlisted as a gunner within the 118th Discipline Regiment Royal Artillery. REX / SHUTTERSTOCK 
Fergus Anckorn was the longest-serving member of the Magic Circle 
By the point he was shipped out to the Far East, arriving in Singapore in early February 1942, he had met his wife-to-be Lucille Hose, a nurse. 
Inside days of the regiment arriving, they have been bombed by the Japanese whereas on responsibility on the docks and Fergus plunged into the ocean, unaware that if a bomb hit the water the blast wave would kill him. Remarkably he survived however 5 of his companions have been blown to items. 
A number of days later, shortly earlier than the autumn of Singapore, he was terribly wounded when a shell exploded near him and it was solely when the surgeon realized he was a magician that he determined to not amputate his proper hand. 
Having already escaped demise twice, Fergus discovered himself on the centre of a bloodbath in hospital. 
On the morning of February 14 Japanese troops entered the constructing in drive and unleashed an indiscriminate orgy of taking pictures and bayoneting sufferers and workers. 
Semi-conscious and lined in blood from his hand damage, Fergus was satisfied he was about to die however as a substitute the Japanese noticed the quantity of blood on his sheets and assumed he was useless already. 
He later recalled: “I used to be one among 4 males nonetheless alive. The opposite 72 in my ward had been murdered. 
The bottom flooring was complete carnage whereas, upstairs, the killing continued.” 22 Uncommon Color Images Of World Battle II 
Wed, April 19, 2017 A unprecedented assortment of uncommon color images of the Second World Battle that options in a brand new e book titled ‘The Second World Battle in Color’ from the Imperial Battle Museums 
1 of 23 
Fergus was despatched to the infamous Changi jail and a 12 months later put to work on the Burma Railway, the place PoWs have been starved and crushed. 
Someday he was ordered to climb 100 toes up a bamboo viaduct to use boiling creosote. 
Afraid of heights, he managed to succeed in the highest however froze with concern. 
When a guard realised what was occurring he climbed up after him and threw the scorching creosote over Fergus. I used to be one among 4 males nonetheless alive. The opposite 72 in my ward had been murdered Fergus Anckorn 
He was taken to the hospital at Chungkai camp the place later his magic attracted the eye of the murderous camp commander, Osato, who handed Fergus a coin and was amused when he made it disappear – then reappear. 
“Osato had a tin of fish on his desk and I reached throughout, opened the can, and produced the coin from it,” recalled Fergus. 
He was allowed to maintain the meals as a result of the Japanese wouldn’t contact something the prisoners had touched and Fergus realised: “If I do magic with meals, I’m going to finish up consuming it.” 
On one event he did a trick which wanted an egg however requested for 50 – and Fergus and his comrades have been in a position to benefit from the different 49. 
After the present Osato demanded: “You do magic one egg. The place 49 eggs?” 
Fergus stated, “Your trick was so vital to me I used to be practising all day.” Osato let him go. 
“I couldn’t carry out that trick once more for 40 years. My knees would knock even desirous about it,” Fergus later admitted. 
In December 1945, 4 months after the battle ended, he returned dwelling weighing simply six stone. 
Fergus and Lucille married and had two youngsters, who survive him. 
He by no means forgot the hell he’d been by however resolved to dwell the remainder of his life with out concern. 
As he as soon as stated: “I’m most likely the luckiest man alive.” Share this: 