KMD SAP Consultant Graduate Program KMD A/S Graduate/trainee Storkøbenhavn 
Do you want to be an SAP consultant of the future? Are you eager to work with S4/HANA, Cloud and ERP solutions within SAP? Do you want to learn how to translate your theoretical knowledge into practical IT solutions? We are looking for talented and motivated newly graduates for the 18 months SAP Graduate Program starting in September 2018. 
KMD is one of Denmark’s largest IT and software companies. Our headquarters are in Ballerup which means you will be close to key decision makers. This is a great advantage for ambitious graduates who want to have influence and put their ideas to work. Most of KMD’s business derives from software development, and our company delivers it solutions to local government, central government and large corporations. KMD collaborates with global companies like SAP in Germany and Tech Mahindra in India and subsidiary companies in Poland, Norway and Sweden. 
About KMD’s SAP Graduate Program KMD has an SAP Graduate Program because we focus on the future. The Danish SAP market lacks highly skilled labor and we have a vision of training some of Denmark’s best SAP consultants so we can provide the best possible service to KMD’s customers. 
Our 18 months program is designed for ambitious graduates who want to expand their theoretical education with the cutting-edge technologies in SAP and pursue a career as a consultant or architect. At KMD your career starts right away because we consider our graduates as future employees. 
As an graduate in KMD you will participate in a program with comprehensive SAP training and already three months into the program you will become an intern on a customer project. We believe that the most valuable professional and personal development happens when you participate in ongoing activities with talented and experienced colleagues. You will participate in various training modules concurrent with your internship. After passing your SAP certification, you will be assigned to a customer project as an SAP consultant. Throughout the program, you will be supported by your mentor, your colleagues and your manager of the SAP Graduate Program to ensure that you are prepared to solve the tasks you are presented with. 
This is what you will learn During the 18 months program, you will learn how to translate business processes into IT solutions in SAP by working with talented and competent colleagues and demanding quality-conscious customers. For you to solve this task we have planned an intensive and interesting program for you. Some of the elements are: SAP training in Process & Methods, SAP certification in your SAP discipline respectively HCM/ Successfactors, SAP S/4 HANA Finance, Fiori – SAP User experience and Logistics Consultant mindset, skills and behaviour Participating in IT projects in different roles – that are aligned with your competence level, so you build experience and develop your skills. 
About you We are looking for talented and ambitious candidates who hold a relevant master’s degree or an equivalent degree from universities like CBS, KU, AU, ITU or AAU. We hire newly graduated and graduates who have maximum one year of experience. We do not require specific it knowledge, but we do expect that you are interested in it. If you are one of the candidates, we are looking for, you will be able to identify with the following: Business minded and knowledge about business processes (Finance, HR, logistics or User Experience) Good communicative and collaborative skills Analytically strong with an outgoing attitude Passion and drive to pursue a career in KMD Eager to learn, innovative and creative A team player Fluent in Danish and English 
Information meetings If you are curious to know more about KMD’s SAP Graduate Program, then participate in one of our information meetings at KMD’s offices in: Ballerup: Tuesday, April 10, 6 p.m. Aarhus: Wednesday, April 11, 4 p.m. Aalborg: Thursday, April 12, 4 p.m. 
Please sign up by for KMDgraduateday before April 3 and let us know in which city you will be participating. 
How to apply Visit www.kmd.dk/graduate and apply by filling in the application form before April 27. Upload your CV, and a motivation letter, which expresses why we should choose you for our SAP Consultant Graduate Program. Remember to attach your certificates (including your grades) when you upload your application. If you have not finished your Master’s yet please upload your latest grades. 
We are continuously calling candidates in for interview, so send your application as soon as possible. Ansøgningsfrist d. 27.04.2018 2018-04-27 00:00:00