KMD Project Manager Graduate program KMD A/S Storkøbenhavn 
BECOME THE BEST PROJECT MANAGER BY WORKING WITH THE BEST 
Are you eager to join the largest IT projects in Denmark? Do you want to learn how to turn your theoretical knowledge into practical IT project management? We are looking for talented and motivated recently graduates for our Project Management Graduate Program starting in September 2018. 
KMD is one of Denmark’s largest IT and software companies. Our headquarters are in Ballerup, which means you will be close to key decision makers. This is a great advantage for ambitious graduates who wants to have influence and put their ideas to work. Most of KMD’s business derives from software development projects, and our company delivers IT solutions to local governments, the central government and large corporations. KMD succeeds with growth and being in the black numbers, by having deep insight in all Danish markets and collaborating with global companies like SAP in Germany and Tech Mahindra in India as well as subsidiary companies in Poland, Norway and Sweden. 
We want to educate the best Project Managers in Denmark KMD has a Project Management Graduate Program because we focus on the future. KMD is heading some of the largest and most complex IT projects in Denmark and we need well-educated and skilled Project Managers. Our vision is to educate Denmark’s best Project Managers, so that we can provide the best possible service to KMD’s customers. 
Our 18 months program is designed for ambitious graduates who wants to become experts in project management and pursue a career as IT Project Manager with us. At KMD, your career starts right away because we treat our graduates as future employees. 
As a graduate at KMD, you will be supported by a personal mentor who belongs to the top league of IT project management in Denmark. You will also be part of a professional and valuable network with other graduates and KMD’s Young Professional network with high-educated younger colleagues across the organization. 
The program starts with training and certification and then you will become an intern on a customer project. You will participate in various training modules to ensure, that your education continues whilst carrying out your internship. We believe that the most valuable professional and personal development happens when you participate in ongoing activities with talented and experienced colleagues and sparring with your mentor. You will work within diverse customer segments, with various technologies and different types of projects. To ensure that you are prepared to solve the tasks you are presented with, your mentor, your colleagues and managers of the Project Management Graduate Program will support you. 
From PM-assistant to PM-team lead During the 18 months program, you will get through different aspects of the project management role in KMD. You start up as a PM-assistant on larger projects and well along, you will be responsible for planning and reporting and soon you will become PM-team lead, heading your own projects. To help you achieve this, we have planned an intensive and interesting program for you. Some of the elements of the program are: Training and certification in IPMA D and PRINCE2 Leadership Development and stakeholder management IT Technical insight and understanding 
You are a strong communicator with ambitions We are looking for talented and ambitious candidates who hold a relevant master’s degree or an equivalent degree from universities like CBS, KU, AU, ITU or AAU. We hire recently graduated and graduates who have no more than one year of work experience. If you are one of the candidates we are looking for, you will be able to identify with the following: Good communicative and collaborative skills Analytically strong, organized with an outgoing attitude Passion and drive to pursue a career in KMD Business minded with IT technology focus Eager to learn, innovative and creative A team player Fluent in Danish and English. 
Information meetings If you are curious to know more about KMD’s Project Management Program, then participate in one of our information meetings at KMD’s offices in: Ballerup: Tuesday, April 10, 6 p.m. Aarhus: Wednesday, April 11, 4 p.m. Aalborg: Thursday, April 12, 4 p.m. 
Please sign up for KMDgraduateday before April 3 and let us know in which city you will be participating. 
How to apply Visit www.kmd.dk/graduate and apply by filling in the application form before April 27. Upload your CV, and a motivation letter, which expresses why we should choose you for our Project Management Graduate Program. Remember to attach your certificates (including your grades) when you upload your application. If you have not finished your Master’s yet please upload your latest grades. 
We are continuously calling candidates in for interview, so send your application as soon as possible. Ansøgningsfrist d. 27.04.2018 2018-04-27 00:00:00