Dist: 28,6 km Start: 08:10 End: 15:05 
Josh went last evening up the hill to get water from a resort. Very nice, Thanks! We might have easily pulled on a beach around Brookings for water, but who knows…at least we had a sound sleep. 
On packing this morning, I was teasing him once more to be “The Sandman”, gear and body and hair coated mostly allover with sand, and he happily posed for exactly such a picture, hehehe…Never actually also seen someone stuffing gear bags with a foot into the bow and hatches… 
Low winds and low swell all day, many scattered big rocks, but only one single arch to go through. A huge one up in the sky though, and a huge hole in an island high up. The play spots were limited…and besides a few surfing take-offs on the open beach section after Brookings, things were moderate exciting today. Maybe we were spoilt from the last two days?? 
Welcome to California!!! 
The landing in the Smith River mouth was rather the skill-highlight of the day. We arrived just in the middle of the highest out-going tide of the month, and it was a bit of a gamble to get in. The swell was not too high, but there were some trashing breakers rolling in. We might have gone a bit further south and might have found some better open entry, but then we would have to also paddle longer against the outgoing tide. So our best bet was to cut in across the surf pretty close to the rocks, where just about a clean line showed up while to the right some nasty beakers were crashing down. I stayed luckily free of surf waves until I crossed the main breaking bar. It must have also been some kind of eddy, as the speed going in there was all right – until I came to a small rocky point, where the outer bent current seemed too much for me. I ferry glided to the middle of the river, and also quickly across to the inner bent when I noticed I could paddle here in against the tide. 
I planned to paddle into the river until I would be well around the corner and could land current-free, but first, I saw unfortunately about fifty seals launching when I approached, and second, I found myself in a strong shallow eddy pretty quick and thought I better catch ground under my feet just here. Thank goodness, Josh had the nerves to follow me in in the same safe but little crazy way, good guy…! He later admitted he wouldn’t have minded to be caught and rolled in somehow into the shallows by one of the trashy breakers…you’ll get it early enough, my young wild man! 🙂 I prefer both of us to stay upright and dry! But maybe he should have taken the perfect opportunity to have at least here a sweet water bath in the crystal clear rive by rolling in…hehehe…am I a too picky old lady?? I at least really enjoy to get clean in the evenings and to strip down to wash… 
Josh and I spent the evening in some good long conversation, and I feel like I am in good and safe company. I might have even not done my “homework” enough to realize what kind of good (whitewater) paddling skills he already brought to the mutual trip…but I am also not sure about his…