6 of the Best Soundbars Watch movies in new light by add one of the leading soundbars mansblackbook March 31, 2018 0 
Soundbars have been knocking around for a few years now. As we all know, televisions don’t always produce the best sound and we may well be missing out when we’re watching our favourite films and programmes. In order to get the best out of our viewing experience, soundbars are a good way to go. It’s a slim and bar shaped device, meaning it takes up little space, that contains multiple speakers. With a soundbar, you can achieve a cinematic, surround-sound effect without the expense and hassle of a home theatre and surround speaker set up. Best of all, today’s bars are often wireless and can be used as a general music player that can connect to our favourite apps and playlists. Here’s 6 of the best! 
Yamaha YAS-207 Soundbar 
If you’re looking for a soundbar on a budget, the Yamaha YAS-207 is for you. It has a powerful bass from a wireless subwoofer (so you’ll be able to really feel your sounds) and is the world’s first soundbar to use something called DTS Virtual:X technology (which gives the impression of height from sound, meaning that effects such as a plane flying overhead sounds more realistic than ever). It is super easy to set up and looks pretty smart too. 

Yamaha YAS-207 BUY IT on Amazon 
Dali Kubik One Soundbar 
The Dali Kubik One soundbar is an award winning soundbar. Not only does it look amazing in any room in the house but it also offers multi-coloured finishes that can be changed to suit any decor in the home. It’s quite a flexible product in that it offers a broad range of connectors such as wireless Bluetooth, USB and analogue input. It doesn’t have a subwoofer but the 100w built-in amplifier still delivers an impressive bass performance and sound quality for any room. 
Dali Kubik One BUY IT on Amazon 
Samsung HW-MS750 Soundbar 
Samsung has dominated TVs and mobiles and the HW-MS750 is a true contender for the best wireless soundbars ever made. The sound is just incredible. It’s the way sound should sound what with it’s ability to provide a greater depth and dimension to surround sound, ensuring the ceiling isn’t missing out. The HW-MS750 gives a deeper and more detailed bass as low as 27Hz (and as an added bonus, the SWA-W700 subwoofer can be added for that extra boom). 
Samsung HW-MS750 BUY IT on Amazon 
LG SJ9 SoundBar 
This is a high resolution audio soundbar that was voted by Time Magazine as ‘the best TV soundbars you can buy right now’. It feels like the cinema’s at home, what with its Dolby Atmos technology which allows sound to move anywhere in a three dimensional space, including above the listener for an ultimate surround sound experience. 

LG SoundBar SJ9 BUY IT on Amazon 
Sonos PlayBar SoundBar 
The Sonos PlayBar is an all in one soundbar for home cinema and music streaming. It’s a super easy set-up with only two cables – one plugs into your television and the other connects to the power. It streams over WiFi, not Bluetooth so there’s never any interruption even if you receive a phone call when you’re blasting out your favourite sounds. It connects to an Amazon Echo or Dot to play and control songs, playlists, radio stations and more. It’s Trueplay software works with the Sonos app to analyse your room and fit your sounds to your space. Whoa! 

Sonos PlayBar SoundBar BUY IT on Amazon Sony HT-ST5000 Soundbar 
The Sony HT-ST5000 is a high-end soundbar. It offers three dimensional sound and high resolution audio so it feels like your favourite artist is performing right in front of you. It’s highly intelligent – its ClearAudio+ technology automatically adjusts sound settings to suit whatever you’re watching or listening to. This soundbar features a woofer and tweeter that work together in a single unit to deliver precisely aligned audio. 
Sony HT-ST5000 BUY IT on Amazon Share 