Dist: 29,6 km Start: 08:05 End: 14:15 
Franca and her partner Joe picked me from the beach yesterday at 8pm, and all three of us shared a room at the Anchor Inn. We tried to go out for food, but the only brewery open this Saturday evening at 9 pm was packed with locals, nothing for us. We had sme pre-homemade lamb stew in the room, just nice! Still neither Franca nor I got much sleep this night, I was busy charging one battery after the other and uploading pictures in the slow internet. 
Josh had dropped my kayak somehow yesterday at the Eglund’s Marine Store, thanks to manager Chris Hegnes to unlock he storage this holiday morning to get it out! My young wild co-paddler didn’t feel he needed to bother to clean my kayak, all hatches and cockpit was full of saltwater, sand and mud as always. Thanks…very much appreciated. I think there must have been plenty of water where he pulled it out…? Missing my bear spray… 
Joe finally took the kayak down to San Francisco, where I can pick it up on my way back north to the Pacific Paddling Symposium in Victoria. And maybe some other possible co-paddler might be interested to use it? 
Franca and I launched into a dead calm sea and sunny Easter-Sunday morning, happy and full of motivation. Thank goodness we have very similar styles of gear-keeping and packing…we cruised along in moderate pace, doing happily a lot of woman’s talking the first hours, not seeming to run out of subjects…nice! Franca’s lively Italian nature was just to my like! 
A huge cave and arch was inviting in some swell to paddle in and through, but two others proved today to be really too small for my boat. I can also say “no”…The “daily whale” showed up, many seals and sea lions, many rocks…just as sea kayaking should be! 
The Klamath River mouth has shifted to the south, different to my satellite images, and we might have been able to paddle in easily at the end of the running in tide, but we preferred to check if the beaches behind would be possible to land on today’s low swell, to cover some more distance. I like to be in Trinidad in two more paddling days, before the bad weather kicks in. I was not sure about beaches further down, so we eventually decided to land on a moderately dumping gravel beach not too far behind the river mouth, with good camping options. I went in first, under-estimated a bit the cross-current of a fat rock to the left and struggled a bit to get my heavy kayak out of the surge. I had to unload three water bags to get it up. When I caught Franca getting in, I could drag her almost high up the beach with her still inside…so little weight…hehehe… 
We enjoyed making camp together the firs time, having some good laugh showing off to each other our different kit and gear ideas…fun! It was a lovely sunny afternoon, we cooked outside some fresh veggies, all perfect! Just both of us are a bit tired from little sleep last night… 
We decide to stay in tomorrow, on a forecast of two meter seas to land quite unsheltered in the afternoon with up to 20 knots and more following winds. It is still 55 km to Trinidad, we might cover it completely on Tuesday, but not in tomorrow’s conditions…we’ll have a good hike to Klamath or such!