Start: 07:35 End: 13:15 
It was a day too early for a bad Aril Fool’s Day joke, Josh… My young wild paddling partner decided this morning to step out of the trip. Ok, then it’s like it is. We had planned to paddle a mere 25 km to Crescent City today, to meet Franca Cioria, but this outlook seemed not to be to Josh’s like, to paddle along a monotonous beach for 20 km in bad visibility, without options to land reasonably in surf in low wind and moderate swell, and without play spots like we were blessed with the last three days. 
He didn’t like to learn how to pee seated in the kayak either, and assisting him by holding the boat, and he turns around kneeing, we also only did once. So no “advanced sea kayaking certification” possible… 
I am happy to change plans of the day, but only to a degree when tides and weather forecast dictate, and not when we were up for a meeting with another paddling partner tonight. We have just three days of ideal good weather ahead to cover the remote stretch to Trinidad, before we might be weathered in again in Trinidad or Eureka. 
Josh’s and my ideas of a sea kayaking trip are simply too different, as much as our life styles, sporting backgrounds (white water versus sea kayaker) – and age… I am happy for thrilling challenges at play spots and in big seas, but to be up fully for the challenge of paddling around an island, one also needs to be able to show endurance in many regards on “boring” stretches. I’ll do those better then myself, or with a more talkative matching paddling partner. 
Thanks for those eleven days, I do not want to miss them! Josh proved to be up for many challenges in sea kayaking, with skills and nerves. We had a lot of fun and good experiences. But I’d have preferred to split without disagreement…I’m glad Josh eventually liked my kayak and paddle, and I am all right taking care of it now, though unplanned. Thanks for cooking me dinner in return. It would be great if you could share your pictures with me as agreed beforehand, thanks! Many people would appreciate to see our experiences in images. 
Franca Ciora will join me tonight, looking very much forward to a woman’s company in similar age! 
My paddling day today wasn’t much boring at all, on the stretch along the beach in some bad visibility I was working out hard and enjoyed my new freedom. At Point St. George, the sun came out, right for a wonderful paddle through a maze of huge rocks and cliffs. Castle Rock was littered with birds, as much as the low cliffs around and before Castle Rock were littered with sea lions barking at me. Wonderful wildlife! 
Nearing the lighthouse, I saw a whale spouting…three times, coming closer…and the fourth time, he was just to my left, diving under my boat, his fluke high up, but not in the air. I could almost touch the fluke…wonderful experience!!! I slowly crossed the wide harbor entrance, to eventually decide to pull on the dead calm small beach behind Whale Island at the end of the south jetty. A big no camping sign didn’t bother me, as Franca will pick me up around eight to stay at a hotel she booked. Ample time in sunshine now to make new plans and to look ahead!