  Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, South Africa’s ‘Mother of the Nation,’ goes the real home   Moh When former president Nelson Mandela wrote about Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in his autobiography, A Long Walk to Freedom, he wrote: “Her spirit, her passion … her courage, her wilfulness: I felt all of these things the moment I saw her.” His description perhaps best explains the complex character that was beloved by so many but was often followed by controversy: someone who let herself be guided by her passion and the courage of her convictions. “She sometimes made for a controversial figure and whether one agreed with her views or not, one must admire the fact that she never lacked the courage of her convictions,” UDM leader and Mandela family friend Bantu Holomisa said on Monday after her passing. “She called a spade a shovel; and then some. She was strong, passionate, articulate and charismatic. She did not shirk confrontation, but also had a sense of humour and a light-hearted side.” For millions of South Africans Madikizela-Mandela was an icon, the mother of the nation. At her 80th birthday party held in Johannesburg in 2016, her daughter, Zindzi Mandela, said, “There are many books written about her‚ documentaries produced and so on. But there are also some parts of her that people don’t know about. “My mother is a very keen gardener. I, for example, was two hours late for my wedding because my mother had to water the garden‚” Zindzi said. “But that is my mother‚ she loves to be surrounded by beautiful things and she loves to make beautiful things grow‚ it’s just her nature.” The same party was attended by the likes of Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille, EFF leader Julius Malema and then deputy president Cyril Ramaphosa – a testament to the respect she demanded across the political board. And while public opinion about her has often been divided, there can be no dispute that Madikizela-Mandela’s life was characterised by the sacrifices she made for the struggle against apartheid. Her contribution came at a heavy personal price. ​