Media Kit (DK) Sales Executive, Corporate Denmark – Norwegian 
Can you drive profitable revenue for Norwegian? If yes, this is your opportunity to join a highly motivated international team to work for a continuously growing global airline. Norwegian is looking for a result oriented and highly motivated sales person to work as a Sales Executive Corporate. You travel regularly and are responsible for sales towards existing and new corporate accounts in your region. This position based at Copenhagen Airport. 
Job description Managing the relationship with corporate accounts in Denmark Negotiating existing and new contracts Follow up and analysis of agreement performance Plan and organizing sales activities according to guidelines and budget Identify sales opportunities in the market, prospect and search for new businesses Implement and administrate agreements both internal and external Represent Norwegian in events with customers, partners etc. You will report to Head of sales, Denmark 
Qualifications At least 3 years commercial- / sales- / Account Management Proven track record of proactive decision making and delivery Experience from the travel industry will be considered as an asset You must be fluent in Danish and English, written as well as spoken. Other Nordic language skills are desirable 
Personal qualities Effective influencing and negotiation skills Ability to prioritise and maintain focus to ensure delivery of targets and results Strong analytical skills Great communication and time management skills Ability to operate effectively in a diverse and multicultural environment 
We offer Competitive company benefits including ID tickets and share saving program Good pension and insurance schemes Positive and exciting place to work in a global expanding organization Challenging, variable and dynamic environment 
For further information or questions, please contact Frank Nordbjerg, Head of Sales, +45 2757 6816. Please use appointed link to Webcruiter recruitment tool as we do not accept direct e-mail applications. 
Deadline for application: 18/04/2018 
To all recruitment agencies without a base agreement: Norwegian does not accept resumes from agencies with whom we do not have an agreement. Please do not forward resumes to our jobs alias, Norwegian employees or any other company location.