Loc: Hachures 
No paddling today 
High seas (2 meters) and wind (north 20-30 knots) made the decision easy to stay dry. Dead calm winds tomorrow and Wednesday, plus moderate (1,40 meters) to very low (0,80 meters) seas will easily cover the stretches to Trinidad and Eureka. Then after – we’ll see about the weather… Thanks to Michael Morris from the “Explore North Coast” kayak club to fine a room for me and Franca, with Damon Maguire as a host. Very nice, guys! 
We spent all morning chatting important “Lady’s talk”, had lunch snacks in the sun on our clean gravel beach and watched the wind and swell raising by the hour. Around 2 pm, we went for a walk north to find the Klamath River mouth. We had to climb some steep huge rocks covered with loose gravel soil, where Franca eventually preferred to stay away from a steep descending climb. No problems, I continued myself walking and climbing over rocks to the river mouth for about two hours, keeping in touch with Franca via texts. 
I found a native Mexican guy fishing for eels in the high wash up, quite an interesting fishing method! He simply used a meter long wooden stick with a long metal hook to pick the eels off the gravel who are getting washed up the beach in the high swell. He proudly presented me one eel on the hook when I walked back! Amazing job! 
Meanwhile, I was sitting down on a log and was watching endless the mouth of the Klamath River – where we could have yesterday quite easily paddled just upriver after we found the open unbroken mouth, it was a messy mass of monster breakers today coming from all sides, splashing and crashing up against each other on the highest outgoing tide with 30 knots wind on top! The icing on the cake of water were the sea lions – about twenty fat guys were playing or rather feeding happily in the strong outgoing current, jumping over and under the waves and performing a lust of live it was a igh pleasure to watch! I took a few videos and pics, hope to post them soon. Wonderful wild nature and wild life! 
On my way back, I was chatting to a Alexandra, who turned out only after a while to be a German/-Russian lady living in Austria. We did not recognize each other’s accent for a while, until we switched to German with a smile! The world is s small… 
Franca’s dinner plan was one the most the most delicious tomato tuna/ garlic-outdoor-pasta I have ever eaten, and we had so much fun preparing with our carefully selected and well-kept outdoor kitchen utensils…Josh would have gotten well-educated with the two of us, hehehe…and probably teased to death… 
The sea has calmed down already a lot, see how we’ll get out tomorrow! Actually glad we are already past the Klamath River, and don’t have to care about it any more in no way.