jacket. Jetpack Hom(m)e shoes. Maison Margiela 
Mix one part cool Math geek with two parts stage actress, infuse three parts supernatural heroine and you’ve got yourself one rare individual — in the best way imaginable. Katherine McNamara is the leading female force behind popular series Shadowhunters . As the third season of the hit series makes its way to international audiences through Netflix, Schön! speaks all things economics, education and empowerment with the soaring star. 
McNamara was born into a medical family, so education was always a priority. Early on she was a natural academic, graduating with a business degree, at an age when most of us were still completing high school. “I loved Math as a kid, so anything having to do with numbers is right in my wheelhouse,” she says. “Economics expanded that for me and gave me a real-world application through which to use my love of numbers.” Economics was indeed a wise decision for her acting career, as the skill gave her power over her finances. “In my line of work, there are times where you don’t know when your next job is going to happen or where your next paycheck is coming from,” she admits. “As such, I find it immensely essential to be able to plan, invest, and organise my own finances.” 
opposite full look. Jetpack Hom(m)e 
McNamara likens the world of an actress to that of a business owner, explaining “I’ve had a great advantage in the knowledge again through my business degree so that I can make decisions quickly, officially, and in an informed as to how it will affect the future.” While one may think academia has little to do with acting, McNamara eloquently justifies her aptitude towards both. “W ith every job, every role, even every scene comes new challenges, new learning experiences, and new ways to expanded both my artistry and myself as a person,” she explains. Initially, these roles were on the stage, alongside the likes of Catherine Zeta-Jones . “The energy of the audience is like no other and the thrill of a live show is exhilarating,” she says. “However, there is a magic that is created on a set that’s quiet where you can hear a pin drop and nothing exists except the moment you’re playing.” 
Most recently she has been creating magic on the set of Shadowhunters , where she plays the lead character, Clary Fray. The show explores humanistic qualities against a backdrop of supernatural themes. “We tackle extremely common and extremely relatable issues that everyone goes through. With the supernatural aspect, it allows the audience to look at their own lives and their own struggles objectively and hopefully learn something and take something away from the process,” she illustrates. For fans who had been anxiously awaiting for the third season premiere the week before last, McNamara reveals that “after the events of the season two finale, Clary is changed forever. She no longer sees the Shadow World as a magical land of wonderment, she sees it for what it is — a cold, cutting, dark, bloody, deadly world that has no mercy no matter your intentions. There’s a maturity with which she tackles issues and responsibility for her past mistakes.” top. Opening Ceremony trousers. MM6 by Maison Margiela jacket. Miaou