Two Members Of “Fatka Gang” Held For Snatching Cellular Telephones In Mumbai Two Members Of “Fatka Gang” Held For Snatching Cellular Telephones In Mumbai April 4, 2018 Trending No Comments The accused duo have ten circumstances pending in opposition to them with the Kalyan authorities railway police. (File) Mumbai: Two individuals, suspected to be the members of “fatka gang”, have been arrested for allegedly snatching cellphones from passengers travelling on lengthy distance and native trains on Central , the federal government railway police or GRP mentioned Tuesday.
The duo, arrested from Kalyan railway station lately, are presently in judicial custody. 
The accused, recognized as Ajit Jhade and Deepak Thokal, are a part of a gang that targets commuters standing on footborads of trains, mentioned Deputy Commissioner of Police, GRP (Central Railway), Samadhan Pawar. 
He mentioned the members of the “fatka gang” usually perch themselves atop a sign or electrical energy poles alongside railway tracks and hit commuters with a stick or fingers when the prepare slows down. 
“Earlier than the startled commuters might react, they seize their cellphones and flee,” the officer mentioned. 
“Over the previous few weeks, we had acquired a number of such complaints at Kalayan station,” Mr Pawar mentioned, including that that they had nabbed Jhade a couple of days in the past whose interrogation led them to Thokal. 
The accused duo have ten circumstances pending in opposition to them with the Kalyan GRP, he mentioned, including that as many as 20 cellphones of varied manufacturers have been recovered from their possession. 
They’ve been booked below sections 382 (theft after preparation made for inflicting loss of life, harm or restraint), 308 (try to commit culpable murder) and 34 (acts completed by a number of individuals in furtherance of widespread intention) of the IPC, one other official mentioned.The GRP has additionally arrested two individuals, recognized as Gautam Shonwane and Sanjay Extra, for allegedly shopping for the stolen handsets, he mentioned. 
(This story has not been edited by NDTV employees and is auto-generated from a syndicated feed.) Share this: 