YIT to pave runway, taxiways and aprons at Tampere-Pirkkala Airport Wed, Mar 28, 2018 08:00 CET 
YIT CORPORATION Press release, March 28, 2018, at 09:00 a.m. 
YIT and Finavia have signed an agreement on paving work at Tampere-Pirkkala Airport. Work will begin in April and end in August 2018. The total value of the contract is approximately EUR 3.7 million. 
The contract consists of the paving of a runway, taxiways and aprons. In addition, remixer levelling and milling will be carried out at the airport. The project will require approximately 53,000 tonnes of asphalt mixture. 
“The contract is very demanding as, for part of the time, we will be working in an operating airport environment. Durability and life-cycle costs are important criteria when choosing airport paving material, so the quality factors that we emphasise are stability and weather resistance,” says Markku Lilja , Senior Vice President at YIT. 
Finavia has scheduled the renovation work so that it causes as little disruption to air traffic as possible. The midsummer period of July 17–August 12, 2018, was chosen for closing down the airport as, at that time, the air traffic volume would have been low anyway. 
“The operation volumes of Tampere-Pirkkala Airport are increasing due to the new aviation training centre and the growth in passenger traffic. The re-paving of traffic areas and the simultaneous apron extension are being carried out in response to the needs of diverse air traffic. All in all, Finavia is investing approximately 15 million euros in the development of the airport,” says Mari Nurminen , Finavia’s airport manager at Tampere-Pirkkala Airport. 
YIT has solid experience in airport paving both in Finland and abroad. Currently, YIT is carrying out another contract for Finavia: the Helsinki Airport terminal extension and alteration work that will be completed in 2020. 
Further information: 
Markku Lilja , Senior Vice President, Paving segment, tel. +358 400 653 526, 
Hanna Malmivaara , Vice President, Communications, YIT Corporation, tel. +358 40 561 6568, 
YIT is the biggest construction company in Finland and a major player in Northern Europe. We construct and develop apartments, business premises and entire residential areas. Furthermore, we are specialists in infrastructure construction and paving. Together with our customers, our 10,000 professionals create increasingly functional, appealing and sustainable cities and living environments. We have operations in 11 countries: Finland, Russia, Scandinavian and Baltic countries, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. The new YIT was created by the merger of YIT Corporation and Lemminkäinen Corporation, both over 100 years old, on February 1, 2018. In 2017, our combined annual revenue amounted to over EUR 3.8 billion. YIT Corporation’s share is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. www.yitgroup.com 
Tags: construction , Finland , YIT , airport , Tampere , Paving , projects , Tampere-Pirkkala About Us 
YIT is the largest Finnish and significant North European construction company. We develop and build apartments, business premises and entire areas. We are also specialised in demanding infrastructure construction and paving. Together with our customers our 10,000 professionals are creating more functional, more attractive and more sustainable cities and environments. We work in 11 countries: Finland, Russia, Scandinavia, the Baltic States, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Poland. The new YIT was born when over 100-year-old YIT Corporation and Lemminkäinen Corporation merged on February 1, 2018. Our combined annual revenue for 2017 was over EUR 3.8 billion. YIT Corporation's share is listed on Nasdaq Helsinki Oy. www.yitgroup.com Subscribe