Two LEG Carriers built by Sinopacific with Wärtsilä solutions onboard are named Wed, Mar 28, 2018 11:00 CET 
Wärtsilä Corporation, Trade press release, 28 March 2018 at 12 noon EET 
The first two vessels in a series of five liquid ethylene gas (LEG) carriers featuring complete cargo handling systems designed and delivered by the technology group Wärtsilä, have been completed and named. The series includes 2 x 17000m3 and 3 x 22000m3 LEG carriers, and were built by CIMC Sinopacific Offshore & Engineering Co. Ltd. (CIMC SOE) in China for a Chinese ship owner. The naming ceremony for the two 17000m3 vessels took place on March 28. The delivery ceremony for the first of these ships was held at the same time. 
The delivery of the first of these vessels marks a significant occasion for the yard, which was successfully reorganised in August 2017 after filing for bankruptcy in 2016. 
The two 17,000 m3 capacity carriers are fitted with cargo handling systems designed and produced by Wärtsilä. The systems include a reliquefaction plant for ethylene, ethane, and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG), as well as for various petrochemical cargoes. Also included is the transfer system comprising the cargo pumps together with the control, monitoring, and safety system. Wärtsilä provided site supervision during the construction of the vessels, as well as commissioning assistance, to ensure that the proper quality standards were achieved. 
“We have enjoyed a very close and successful relationship with CIMC SOE for many years, and we are delighted that the yard is now fully back in operation. The ships are fitted with state-of-the-art cargo handling systems to provide the efficiency required for modern gas carriers. We congratulate everyone involved on this happy occasion,” says Timo Koponen, Vice President, Processing Solutions, Wärtsilä Marine Solutions. 
“We have overcome many difficulties, but now we are celebrating the naming of the first two of the five carriers ordered and the delivery of the first one. We thank Wärtsilä for working with us to ensure a successful outcome,” says Mr Gao WenBao, Chief Executive Officer, CIMC SOE. 
Wärtsilä is today the largest supplier of complete cargo handling systems for vessels in the ethylene carrier segment with solutions for all carrier sizes. Wärtsilä’s extensive portfolio includes a complete offering of gas handling products and services, including ship design, cargo tank design and manufacturing, cargo handling systems, engineering and equipment, reliquefaction plants, regasification systems, fuel gas supply systems, and complete propulsion systems. 
Image caption: Two Sinopacific built LEG Carriers with Wärtsilä gas handling systems have now been named. 
Media contacts: 
General Manager, LPGC Systems / Bunkering & Small Scale LNGC Systems Wärtsilä Gas Solutions