Dahua H.265 XVR features performance and economy Hangzhou, China 
Combining cutting-edge H.265 video compression with unique HDCVI technology, Dahua Technology’s new H.265 XVR series is an effective choice for customers seeking better video quality with less storage requirements, wider compatibility, and intelligent functionality. 
As a highly efficient video coding format, the HDCVI-H.265 codec is able to deliver a better compression ratio without sacrificing image quality, and has therefore been widely used by the surveillance industry in recent years. Dahua has further optimised the standard HDCVI-H.265 codec to deliver HDCVI-H.265+, which reduces required storage space by up to 90%. For instance, a clip of UHD video that used to require 10 hard disks (1GB per disk) to store, can now be stored on a single hard drive, significantly lowering the cost of hard disk storage and giving HDCVI-H.265+ video streams the alias of “Green Stream.” 
Empowered by HDCVI-H.265+ technology, the Dahua H.265 XVR ensures great device compatibility, supporting the decoding of H.265+, H.265, H.264+, or H.264 compression without any additional configuration. It is also compatible with 3rd party surveillance platforms and supports all types of HDCVI-H.265 encoding-based platforms. 
For system integrators and distributors, Dahua’s highly adaptable Dahua H.265 XVR opens the door to new business opportunities. By simply replacing current video recorders with the Dahua H.265 XVR, a seamless surveillance system upgrade can be completed in no time. Aided by a more powerful processor, the new Dahua H.265 XVR supports a maximum of 4 channels of intelligent video surveillance and a maximum N+N channels with IPC access (each channel capable of receiving up to 8MP input), granting greater flexibility for system organisation. 
Users will also find the Dahua H.265 XVR to be more intelligent and easier to operate thanks to the new XVR 4.0 GUI. Self-adaptive support for normal coaxial audio and broadcast-quality audio not only simplifies operation, but also results in better audio quality and reduced noise interference. The new XVR is also compatible with HDCVI-IoT products which integrate sensing technologies including smoke, temperature, and humidity. 
Whether for customers who wish to upgrade their old video surveillance systems, or for those who are still deciding on surveillance devices for a new property, the Dahua H.265 XVR is a choice that delivers lower total cost, improved compatibility, higher video definition and audio quality, and greater intelligence. Email: