Ten excellent reasons to become a Member of The Local James Savage 28 March 2018 15:53 CEST+02:00 After 14 years of being completely free, we are asking loyal readers of The Local to become paying Members. But why are we doing this? In the time-honoured tradition of The Local, co-founder James Savage gives ten reasons. 1. Because good journalism needs resources You might have noticed that The Local is not the only publication asking for readers to become Members, or to buy online subscriptions. Publications from the New York Times to small local newspapers in Sweden are asking their readers to pay because employing journalists and all the other staff it takes to run a paper or news website is expensive. We only ever employ professional, bilingual journalists, who understand Sweden well – and naturally we pay them competitive salaries. 2. Because you'll help the world get a fair picture of Sweden By helping The Local maintain and expand its journalism, you will also have an impact on the way Sweden is perceived internationally. We know from experience that what we write in The Local influences the perception of Sweden in media around the world. Donald Trump caused bafflement last year when he appeared to claim that something terrible had happened 'last night in Sweden'. Nothing in particular had happened, but it naturally made some Americans wonder why Sweden was so troubled. It was one in a long list of incidents in which foreign media and politicians have taken events in Sweden out of context and twisted the truth about this country. A man with a Donald Trump mask holds a paper reading ' Cuba first, Germany second, Sweden third, USA 69.' The picture was taken at a carnival in Cologne, Germany last year. Photo: Martin Meissner/AP/TT. At The Local, we pride ourselves in giving a fair and accurate image of Sweden – neither sugar coated nor alarmist, just a fair account of what's happening here written by people who live here and speak the language. So as a Member, as well as getting something for yourself, you'll be helping the world understand Sweden and tackling disinformation. 3. Because advertising revenues are fickle You'll notice that many brilliant brands advertise with us, and we're proud that they choose The Local to help build their businesses. But here's the thing: what the 14 years of running The Local have taught us is that the world of advertising is a fickle beast. It's sensitive to downturns in the economy and changes in technology, and the big platforms like Facebook and Google are taking an ever bigger chunk of the cake. To be confident that we can provide the depth and level of insight that Swedish news deserves, we need to earn money from other sources too.