Rejlers signs prestigious framework agreement with Ellevio Wed, Mar 28, 2018 15:52 CET 
The new framework agreement covers a total of nine areas with Rejlers being chosen as collaboration partner for all nine of the areas. The assignments can vary in terms of both duration and complexity, and the agreement runs for two years, with the option of extension for a total of a further six years. The framework agreement enters into force on 1 April. 
“Our ability to deliver within all nine areas is proof that we can meet Ellevio’s needs as regards both size and expertise,” says Jenny Edfast, Business Manager at Rejlers. 
The fact that Rejlers has employees stretching from Malmö in the south to Kiruna in the north was another positive factor in the outcome of the procurement. The agreement covers building technology and electrical power in both local and regional grids, cables and overhead power lines in regional grids, inspections and specialist expertise within nature, environment, culture and forest and property law. As we are able to deliver within all these areas, our framework agreement also covers projects,” says Jenny Edfast.Rejlers has been working with Ellevio for many years and has for example carried out feasibility studies, project engineering for stations and cables and inspections. Rejlers and Ellevio also have a shared interest in digital solutions which streamline working methods within project engineering and other areas. The partnership can now be deepened further.We are very thorough in our framework agreement negotiations. The electricity grid in Sweden is a vital part of the nation’s infrastructure and requires both a high level of expertise and the ability to put personnel on the ground quickly. Rejlers is one such supplier of whom we already have excellent experience,” says Mattias Omberg, procurement officer at Ellevio. 
About Ellevio Ellevio AB is one of Sweden’s largest electricity grid companies. We make sure that electricity reaches more than 930,000 homes and workplaces from Halland in the south to Hälsingland in the north and from Smögen in the west to Stockholm and Nynäshamn in the east. We are investing millions of kroner to weather-proof the electricity grid in rural areas and to enhance and renew the electricity grid in urban areas. We have around 400 employees and employ a total of around 3,000 people across the country. Ellevio, which has its registered office in Stockholm, is owned by the Third Swedish National Pension Fund, Folksam, the First Swedish National Pension Fund and OMERS Infrastructure. For more information, visit ellevio.se. 
For further information: Lisa Rejler; acting Communication Director, +46 703 990 806 email: Jenny Edfast; Business Manager Energy Rejlers Sverige, +46 706 496 413, email: Rejlers is one of the largest engineering consultancy firms in the Nordic region. Our 2,000 experts work with projects in the areas of Building and property, Energy, Industry and Infrastructure. At Rejlers, you will meet specialist engineers with the knowledge, cutting edge expertise and energy to achieve results. We can be found in 80 locations in Sweden, Finland and Norway. Rejlers recorded revenue of SEK 2.5 billion in 2017 and its class B share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. About Us 
Rejlers is one of the largest engineering consultancy firms in the Nordic region. Our 1,800 experts work with projects within the areas of Building and property, Energy, Industry and Infrastructure. With us, you will meet specialist engineers with the breadth, cutting edge expertise and not least energy to create the results you want. We are continuing to grow rapidly and our activities are spread across 80 locations in Sweden, Finland and Norway. In 2014, Rejlers had revenue of SEK 1.7 billion and its Class B share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. Contacts