Inbound sales development representative, English-speaking 
About Netigate 
Netigate is the leading European provider of cloud-based services for online surveys that are primarily used for voice of customer, employee performance and market research. At Netigate we’ll help you understand the people that matter – your customers, employees and consumers. We work with over 2,500 of the world’s leading brands to enable them to discover and share new insights quickly, easily and securely. 
How is it like working at Netigate? 
Netigate’s culture is casual and high-energy. We are passionate about our product and simply loyal to each other and our company. We value work/life balance, efficiency, simplicity, customer-focus and making a difference in the world. As we are a rapidly growing company with a strong startup-mentality and you will soon notice great chances to make an impact on our daily business. 
We are a motivated team who have fun together at work, located in central Stockholm If you want to be a part of a young, forward-thinking business and work with driven and ambitious colleagues, you found the place! 
Description of role 
If you hunger for success and wish to become a star Sales Account Executive within 1 year, you will get all the support and coaching you need at Netigate. 
As an inbound sales development representative, you: Identify key decision makers and/or key influencers across many different departments within an organisation. Book meetings: Effectively communicate value propositions across multiple product lines to secure initial meetings with prospects. Use rejection as fuel to motivate and push you to work harder and smarter. Ensure that all activities are accurate and updated in Salesforce.com (The sales meetings will be carried out by Sales Account Executives). 
Requirements: Have 0-1 year experience from a sales-related role You have the desire to become a star Sales Account Executives after 0,5-1 year. 
We also believe that: Opportunity for growth and promotion motivates you. You have an unquestionable track record of making an impact and doing so with excellence. Your competitiveness and intrinsic motivation have always propelled you to the top (academics, sports, or/and previous jobs). You know there's always room to improve. Because of that, you value the fact to be surrounded by team mates who inspire you to be the best version of yourself every day. 
Sounds like you ? Do not hesitate applying already today, as we go through applications continuously. Last application date is 15th of April. 
For questions, please contact me Jenny Jakobsson, Talent Acquisition Partner, +46706380594 or [email protected] . Skicka och dela! Fakta om företaget 
Netigate (Net= Internet, Igate=Investigate) is the leading European provider of cloud-based services for online surveys that are primarily used for voice of customer, employee performance and market research. 
We help organisations gain valuable insights, make better business decisions and improve processes. 
Our clients range from small organisations to global companies in all industries, including many leading companies around the world such as Electrolux, Ericsson, Vodafone, E.ON and Schenker Deutschland AG. 
