Press Room Management and coordination in Sweden The ministries and government agencies bear primary responsibility for the implementation of the Strategy at national level, and commitment at regional level is important for the Strategy's many flagship projects. It is in these that much of the concrete work with the Strategy takes place. The Prime Minister's Office is the coordination point within the Government Offices 
The EU Coordination Secretariat at the Prime Minister's Office is the coordination and management point within the Government Offices, but all the ministries are involved, to varying degrees, as the Strategy covers so many fields. 
The Prime Minister's Office also has overall responsibility to reinforce the cross-sectoral work around the Strategy's implementation. This means ensuring that all the Swedish stakeholders from various sectors of activity work together to implement the Strategy's action plan. National Coordinator 
Each Member State has a National Coordinator responsible, among other things, for ensuring overall coordination and support for the implementation of the Strategy at home and for drafting national positions on it. Sweden's National Coordinator is in the Prime Minister's Office. Interministerial working group 
The Swedish Government Offices have an interministerial working group in which all the ministries involved participate. As a rule, the group meets several times a year to discuss and develop work associated with the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region. Government decisions contribute to implementation at national level 
The responsibility at national level for implementation of the Strategy lies with the relevant ministries, a total of 22 agencies and all 21 county administrative boards. 
Several government decisions concerning active involvement in the implementation at national level have been issued in order to clarify each agency's responsibilities. These government decisions usually cover the purposes of and conditions for participation by the agencies, financial commitments and requirements for cooperation between the authorities in Sweden and those in other countries. National Baltic Sea Network of implementing parties 
The agencies and county administrative boards commissioned by the Government to contribute to the implementation of the Strategy participate in a specific network led by the Swedish Agency for Economic and Regional Growth. The Government's network for the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region (the Östersjönätverk, previously known as the Myndighetsnätverk) meets around three times a year and provides an important platform for the Government's implementation of the Strategy. 
The network brings together agencies, county administrative boards, regions/regional associations, municipalities and other stakeholders. This offers a unique opportunity to transcend sectoral limitations, meet new partners and exchange information on, for example, sources of funding. Officials from the Prime Minister's Office and the ministries involved usually attend these meetings to contribute information about ongoing work in the ministries and at EU level. 
The agencies, county administrative boards and regions/regional associations in the network provide annual input to the Agency for Economic and Regional Growth for its work on the Baltic Sea Strategy. On the basis of this input, the Agency for Economic and Regional Growth then compiles an annual report for the Government entitled Det svenska genomförandet av EU:s strategi för Östersjöregionen (Implementation in Sweden of the EU Strategy for the Baltic Sea Region). Regional and local levels 
Commitment at regional and local levels is very important, not least in the implementation of the Strategy's many flagship projects where much of the concrete work occurs. 
Regions and counties are encouraged to take account of the Strategy when drawing up their regional development strategies and to identify areas where cross-border cooperation could contribute to regional efforts to promote growth. Many regional and local actors already have long-standing relations in the Baltic Sea Region, through a combination of town twinning and the EU's cross-border cooperation programmes, giving a basis for further development. 
Published