Press Room Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality to bring together top names from more than 100 countries Award-winning author Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie, Executive Director of UN Women Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, UNDP Administrator Achim Steiner and human rights counsellor Colin Gonsalves are some of the 500 gender equality actors who will participate in the Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality on 15–17 April. The global forum is about strengthening women’s and girls’ rights, representation and access to resources. 
The Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality will bring together just over 500 participants from more than 100 countries, from grassroots to ministerial level. They include politicians and representatives of academia, the business world and civil society. Representatives of international organisations will also participate, including the heads of several UN bodies, commissioners from the European Union and African Union, and the chief prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. The purpose of the forum is to mobilise the work on global gender equality through alliance-building and exchange of methods and results. 
The Stockholm Forum on Gender Equality is being organised by the Swedish Ministry for Foreign Affairs and the Swedish Institute, in collaboration with the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida) and the Folke Bernadotte Academy (FBA). Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström, Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate and Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin, Minister for EU Affairs and Trade Ann Linde and Minister for Children, the Elderly and Gender Equality Lena Hallengren will represent the Swedish Government. The ministers will share their experiences of working on the Government's feminist foreign policy. 
The programme has been developed in cooperation with a number of Swedish and international gender equality actors and covers a wide range of topics. These include methods to increase the participation of women and girls in peace processes, the importance of gender equality for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, how we are to ensure the right of women and girls to decide over their own bodies, and how various actors can pave the way for women's economic empowerment. The participants will also hear witness accounts from Colombia about the work on what is sometimes called the world's most gender equal peace agreement, and be able to hold interactive discussions about threats and hatred against women on the internet. 
The full programme and detailed press and accreditation information is available at www.genderequalworld.com . 
Contact at the Swedish Institute: 
Ulrika Horn af Rantzien