Two Tribes Unite: Vans and A Tribe Called Quest Unveil Exclusive Footwear Project Vans, the original action sports and apparel brand, unites with iconic hip-hop collective, A Tribe Called Quest and Sony Music’s innovative merchandising company The Thread Shop, to unveil an exclusive footwear collection that sees a true creative homage come to life. Paying tribute to the style, art, music, and originality of the artist’s immense cultural influence since the early 1990s, Vans celebrates A Tribe Called Quest’s outstanding contributions to music and pop culture with footwear designs that memorialize their iconic album artwork and the vibrant song lyrics forever embraced by the 90s zeitgeist and beyond. The exclusive collection offers a range of Vans classic silhouettes including the Slip-On, UltraRange, Old Skool, Slip-On, Authentic, Sk8-Hi and Era in bold colors and prints, illustrating the group’s most favorite milestones of their career. For A Tribe Called Quest fans, the footwear designs speak volumes to the the band’s beloved discography. The Slip-On style highlights the cover artwork from A Tribe Called Quest’s 2016 album, We Got It From Here... Thank You 4 Your Service, with embroidery of the album title, while the Era features an all-over graphic print of album covers spanning from 1990 to 2016. Based on The Anthology album artwork, the group’s rendition of the Old Skool features a classic black on black colorway. The Sk8-Hi features odes to their well-known Bonita Applebaum track with album artwork and printed lyrics on the shoelaces, quarter panels and lining. And a truly special rendition comes from the Authentic, which honors the life of the late Phife Dawg, who passed away in 2015. Lastly, the group’s version of Vans’ newest silhouette, the UltraRange, features black leather uppers with a contrasting red sidestripe. The Vans x A Tribe Called Question collaboration launches globally on April 6, 2018 in adult, kids and toddler sizing. Learn more about this special project at vans.eu.