EET Europarts acquires UK security distributor Gerrards Cross, Buckinghamshire (UK) The acquisition is said to be an important step in the direction of becoming a leading European Surveillance & Security distributor. 
EET Europarts is acquiring one of the leading distributors of CCTV and access control equipment in the UK, Pro-Vision Distribution Ltd. The company is an authorised distributor for over 60 brands from manufacturers that are highly respected throughout the industry. 
“I am very excited to announce the acquisition of Pro-Vision, the company has an excellent reputation in the CCTV and Security market place with vendors such as Bosch, Pelco, Panasonic, Idis and Hanwha Samsung” said Simon Smith, Managing Director at EET Europarts in the UK, and continues; “This acquisition brings a very strong sales and support team, giving the customers the specialist knowledge and support needed in order to supply them the correct solution. The acquisition of Pro-Vision will also strengthens the product offering and sales expertise to existing EET customers of CCTV and Security products. Pro-Vision customers will also now have a much broader range of products in both CCTV and Security and in all our other product categories”. 
Pro-Vision has a well-earned reputation for getting things right, on time, every time – in terms of product knowledge, delivery and support. With the acquisition, EET Europarts will take over a team of over 20 dedicated and experienced employees from Pro-Vision. 
Commenting on the acquisition Peter Ford, Managing Director at Pro-Vision said: “ since 2005 when Brian Munday and I started the company we have endeavoured to grow the business in a professional manner with a level of service that complemented the world class manufacturers we represent. We look forward to bringing to EET Europarts our market knowledge, experience and sales skills. We will, of course, keep the same partnership relationships with our suppliers and I feel confident that jointly, we are ready to gain significant market share going forward as an integral part of an ambitious and successful company”. 
“With the acquisition of Pro-Vision we strengthen our position within the surveillance & security area significantly. We will now be able to provide our customers with an even better product portfolio and achieve our ambition of being the preferred distribution partner in Europe,” says Bo Ørbjerg, Business Line Director, Surveillance & Security at EET Group. Tags