Posted by admin on Sunday, April 1,   Eritrean international Henok Goitom is captain of AIK this seasonPhoto: madote.com 
Scores of African players will don the colors of 15 of the 16 teams vying for the Swedish championship title this season. 
The championship, known as Allsvenskan, begins on April 1. 
Ghanaian defenders Patrick Kpozo, Samuel Mensah and midfielder Frank Arhin together with Ugandan defender Ronald Mukibi and Nigerian Alhaji Gero are title hopefuls with Ostersund. 
Eritrean international Henok Goitom will captain top contenders AIK Solna with Ghanaian midfielder Enoch Adu as teammate while Kenyans David Ochieng and Eric Omondi are in their first season at Brommapojkarna . 
New boys Dalkurd, who already had Gambian defender Kebba Ceesay secured a late deal with Sierra Leonean striker Mohammed Buya Turay from relegated Ekistuna while Senegalese attacker Aliou Badji, Zimbabwean striker Tino Kadewere and new signing Edward Chilufa are on the books of Djurgarden. 
Tunisian playmaker Issam Jebali is the lone African at Elfsborg where he has been since 2016, likewise is Nigerian Chidi Omeje who stars at Sundsvall. 
Hammarby’s three Africans include Ghanaian midfielder Gershon Koffie, Gabon’s Serge Ngouali and Gambian Pa Amat Dibba. 
BK Hacken are pinning their hopes on the goal scoring prowess of Ghanaian Nasiru Mohammed and Sierra Leone’s Alhassan Kamara while Ghanaians Sabah Lawson and Karim Prosper will play for IFK Gothenburg 
Nigerians Gbenga Arokoyo and Chimas Akas are making their debuts at Kalmar where they will team up with Senegalese striker Pape Diouf. 
Comoros’ Fouad Bachirou is also in his first season at Malmo and with Nigerian Bonke Innocent and Ghana’s Kingsley Sarfo are hoping to help the club defend the championship title but Sarfo is embroiled in a rape case and might not feature for the club. Egypt’s Alexander Jakobsen will feature for Norrkoping. 
Ivorian Abdul Razak and Nigeria’s Moses Ogbu team up at Sirius while three Nigerians, Isaac Boye, Michael Omoh and Kennedy Igboananike make up the African lineup in Orebro. Related 
Filed under News , Politics · Tagged with Leave A Comment