Major League Baseball Players Alumni Association Brings Legends for Youth Baseball Clinic Series to Rockville, MD Mon, Apr 02, 2018 15:00 CET Free youth baseball clinic to feature Steve Lombardozzi and other MLB Alumni 
Colorado Springs, Colo. – Local youth will have an opportunity to play with their big league heroes at the Major League Baseball Players Alumni Association (MLBPAA) Legends for Youth baseball clinic series on Saturday, April 7th, 2018 . In conjunction with the Rockville Baseball Association , the free clinic features former Major League Baseball players who will teach baseball skills, drills and life lessons for approximately 200 local youth. 
Players attending* include 1987 Minnesota Twins World Series champion Steve Lombardozzi , as well as Brian Bass, Ken Dixon, Dwayne Henry, Derrick May, Mike O’Connor, Bill Swaggerty and Casper Wells .These eight players combine for 45 seasons, 57 wins and 2,048 games in Major League Baseball. 
The clinic will take place at Dogwood Park – Walter Johnson Field, running from 1:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. , located at 800 Monroe St., Rockville, MD 20852 . Alumni players will train at stations including pitching, catching, baserunning and life skills. Registration will begin at 12:30 p.m. and the afternoon will conclude with an autograph session and baseball giveaways for children in attendance. 
To register for this clinic, please visit www.baseballalumni.com . Registration is required. 
For more information regarding the clinic, please contact Nikki Warner, Director of Communications, at (719) 477-1870, ext. 105 or visit www.baseballalumni.com . 
*Clinicians subject to change. 
About The Major League Baseball Players Alumni Association (MLBPAA) 
MLBPAA was founded in 1982 with the mission of promoting baseball, raising money for charity and protecting the dignity of the game through its alumni players. The MLBPAA is headquartered in Colorado Springs, CO with a membership of more than 8,300, of which approximately 6,000 are alumni and active players. Alumni players find the MLBPAA to be a vital tool to become involved in charity and community philanthropy. Follow @MLBPAA on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram for updates. 

About Legends for Youth Clinics 
MLBPAA’s Legends for Youth clinics impact more than 18,000 children each year, allowing them the unique opportunity to interact with and learn from players who have left a lasting impact on the game of baseball. The MLBPAA has reached children across America and internationally in Australia, Canada, China, Cuba, Curaçao, the Dominican Republic, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama, the United Kingdom and Venezuela, through the Legends for Youth Clinic Series. To donate to this program, visit baseballalumni.com/donate . The official hashtag of the Legends for Youth Clinic Series is #LFYClinic. 
### 
Tags: MLBPAA , Legends for Youth , Bill Swaggerty , LFY , Derrick May , Brian Bass , Steve Lombardozzi , Ken Dixon , Dwayne Henry , Mike OConnor , Casper Wells About Us 
The Major League Baseball Players Alumni Association (MLBPAA) was formed in 1982 in order to promote the game of baseball, raise money for charity, inspire and educate youth through positive sport images and protect the dignity of the game through former players. A nonprofit organization, the MLBPAA establishes a place where a player's drive for excellence and achievement on the field can continue long after they take their last steps off the professional diamond. Contacts