It's always the litte things, isn't it? Photo: Linda Forsell/SvD/TT Victoria Martínez 2 April 2018 06:59 CEST+02:00 Parenting is challenging in the best of circumstances. But when you're still struggling to learn the language and cultural rules of a new country, it's easy to feel like you're alone in the world. Victoria Martínez writes about the ups and downs of immigrant parents. 
This article is available to Members of The Local. Read more membership exclusives here . 
If there's no guide book to parenting, there's definitely no guide book to parenting as an immigrant in Sweden. 
Sure, there's tons of advice to be found. Practical resources are also usually available. And, of course, there are numerous groups for immigrants and expats. These are all great and valuable tools for some of the practical and emotional aspects of parenting, but when it comes to the immediate realities I am confronted with every day as an immigrant parent, I’ve found they have limited usefulness. 
I'm talking about the things I take for granted; the daily activities I assume I am well-versed in until I realize I've never done them in Sweden. Recognizing that my own notions of "how things are done" often have to be thrown out the window can be hard enough. Unraveling how it is done here – sometimes without anything or anyone to guide or instruct me – can make the process even more challenging and frustrating, and even emotionally draining. As a parent, this is amplified, as my responsibility is not just to myself, but to my children as well. 
Also, because my children are quite young, there are many things I'm doing and experiencing for the very first time in the role of parent. How I enter these situations – my expectations, my basis of planning, etc. – is usually rooted in my own personal experiences of doing things in the United States as a child, or perhaps as a babysitter or aunt. Needless to say, this alone often leads to errors due to incorrect expectations and poor planning. 
Whether in the United States or here in Sweden, I accept these errors as a normal part of parenting, just as they are of life in general. Where I struggle as an immigrant is in realizing that my lack of experience and knowledge about how certain things are done in Sweden can make new or challenging parental experiences even more challenging and the search for answers problematic. 
In the United States, I would have had not only a more accurate frame of reference, but also almost immediate support from an existing network of other parents and friends. In Sweden, most new situations with my children involve a combination of serious gaps in my knowledge and a group of strangers. Add in my still emerging grasp of the Swedish language, and the physical and emotional distance kept by many Swedes, and it's easy to feel at times that I am going it alone in the dark. 
MORE FOR MEMBERS: