Peikko to acquire Threadsure® rebar coupling business in Australia  00 CET 
Peikko Group Corporation has acquired the business of companies Threadsure Connection Systems Pty Ltd. and Adjusta Pty Ltd of Australia. The purchase includes product rights, machinery, stocks and the on-going business. The key personnel will transfer to work for Peikko. 
The companies have been Australian niche building products suppliers, focusing on rebar coupling systems sold to the major Australian contractors. The operations are based near Brisbane, in the state of Queensland. After the takeover, all Threadsure and Adjusta functions will be part of Peikko’s legal entity, Peikko Australia Pty. Ltd. 
“I am pleased that the Threadsure and Adjusta products will be developed further under Peikko. It has also been important to me that the existing team can fully continue its work to serve the clients in Australia, offering superior solutions in the field of rebar coupling systems.”, says Gavin Weston, the seller of the business. 
“Peikko has been present in Australia already since 2013. The acquired product range fits our offering well in the cast-in-situ market. For Peikko this is an excellent opportunity to scale up the team and operations in the competitive Australian market”, summarizes Topi Paananen, CEO of Peikko Group Corporation. 
Further information: 
Topi Paananen, CEO, Peikko Group Corporation, mobile: +358 50 384 3001, email: 
Trent Davis, Managing Director, Peikko Australia Pty Ltd., mobile: + 61 0451 265 121, email: 
More information on Threadsure/Adjusta activities: http://threadsure.com.au/ 
Distribution: 
Main media, Peikko websites 
Peikko Group in brief: Peikko Group Corporation is a leading global supplier of slim floor structures and connection technology for precast and cast-in-situ applications. Peikko’s innovative solutions offer a faster, safer, and more efficient way to design and build. Peikko has subsidiaries in 30 countries in Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and North America, with certified manufacturing operations in 7 countries. Peikko’s turnover in 2017 was EUR 188 million. Peikko is a family-owned and run company that employs over 1,600 professionals. Peikko was founded in 1965 and is headquartered in Lahti, Finland. Further information: www.peikko.com . Subscribe