3.4.2018 07:55 | The Institute for Security and Development Dela Digitalization is not only about IT and robots! You have to put the human being into the center! We invite you to get first hand insights into the role of human beings and social aspects in the future digital world! 
The European Japan Experts Association (EJEA) and the Institute for Security and Development Policy (ISDP) jointly organize the unique international conference “ Integration and Disintegration in the Japanese Vision of Society 5.0: A Model for an Open Society in Europe?“ on April 13th and 14th, 2018. The conference commemorates the 150 th anniversary of the establishment of the diplomatic relations between Japan and Sweden ( http://swedenjapan2018.se/eventcalendar/) . It is sponsored e.g. by the Japan World Exposition 1970 Commemorative Fund of the Kansai Osaka 21 st Century Association. 
What is “Society 5.0” and why was this initiative launched in Japan? These questions will be answered by Dr. Yuko Harayama from Japan’s Council for Science, Technology and Innovation . Dr. Anne Haglund-Morrissey, Senior Policy Officer at the Directorate General Research and Innovation at the European Commission will inform about recent trends in EU-Japan Cooperation in Research and Innovation. The former Swedish Ambassador to Japan, Dr. Lars Vargö, will give rare insights into Japan’s “Smart Power”. Additional keynote speeches and five workshops offer further expert information and opportunities for detailed discussions about human centered digital transformation as well as security, economic, and psychological aspects for a future global digital world in the spirit of harmony. The aim of the workshops is to generate new research areas. Also young researchers are encouraged to participate - use the conference to expand your network, to exchange ideas in an open atmosphere and act as mediator and multiplier for future research and education! 
“ Integration and Disintegration in the Japanese Vision of Society 5.0: A Model for an Open Society in Europe?“ on April 13th (13:00-16:30) and 14 th (9:00-13:30), 2018 . 
The number of participants is limited, but a certain number of seats is still available. For further information about the conference and registration please visit www.ejea.eu 
Journalists are kindly invited to cover the conference. 
Venue :