A new scientific publication suggests improved predictions of drug efficacy based on a new analytical method of cell-based experiments Tue, Apr 03, 2018 09:16 CET 
Attana AB and the universities of Karlstad and Helsinki has within the project “Predictive Analysis and Purification of Biological drugs for faster drug development” (PARB) published a paper in Analytical Chemistry. The paper describes how the analysis of experimental results can be improved and visualized using new mathematical algorithms. The project aims at within five years provide new analytical tools that more accurately and in a simplified manner describe the complexity of the interactions between drug molecules and their receptors in the body. In that way improved predictability of drug efficacy should be possible prior to animal- and clinical testing. Attana will use the tool for internal development and selected scientific collaborations the coming years. 
The project “Predictive analysis and purification of biological drugs for faster drug development” was concluded during 2017 and included several project partners, amongst others Karlstad University and Attana. Parts of the project results have now been accepted for publication in Analytical Chemistry. The published results demonstrate how interactions between drug molecules and their cell membrane bound receptors are complex and heterogeneous. It is not unlikely that the heterogeneity of the interactions can affect the efficacy of the drug. The now published paper ” A Reliable Strategy for Analysis of Complex Biosensor Data ” elucidate how mathematical algorithms can calculate and visualize the heterogeneity of interactions. Attana will the coming years use this knowledge for internal projects, in the continuation project Quality Control and Purification of New Biological Pharmaceuticals and with selected customers to within five years develop a standardized analytical software for applications within drug development. 
For more information, please contact: 
Teodor Aastrup, CEO Attana AB e-mail: tel: + 46 8 674 57 00 
The Board of directors for Attana consider that the information in this press release is not likely to have a significant effect on the share prices, but is of general interest for the shareholders and hence should be communicated. 
Attana was founded in 2002 with the vision of in-vitro characterization of molecular interactions mimicking in-vivo conditions. Since then, Attana has developed proprietary label free biosensors for biochemical, crude, sera, and cell-based assays. Attana’s products and research services are used by Big Pharma, biotech companies and academic institutions within the life sciences. To learn more about Attana’s contract research services and our label free cell-based biosensors, please visit www.attana.com or contact . About Us 
Attana was founded in 2002 with the vision of in-vitro characterization of molecular interactions mimicking in-vivo conditions. Since then, Attana has developed proprietary label free biosensors for biochemical, crude, sera, and cell-based assays. Attana’s products and research services are used by Big Pharma, biotech companies and academic institutions within the life sciences. To learn more about Attana’s contract research services and our label free cell-based biosensors, please visit www.attana.com or contact . Subscribe