Mechanical grease overflow prevention system increases worker safety and efficiency Tue, Apr 03, 2018 09:00 CET 
SKF today announced the introduction of its Lincoln mechanical grease overflow prevention system. Designed to prevent hazards associated with reservoir overfilling, this product improves worker safety and minimizes environmental concerns caused by this type of spill. 
Gothenburg, April 3rd: SKF today announced the introduction of its Lincoln mechanical grease overflow prevention system. Designed to prevent hazards associated with reservoir overfilling, this product improves worker safety and minimizes environmental concerns caused by this type of spill. Easy to install and simple to operate, the system reduces the manpower needed for reservoir filling, freeing personnel for other tasks. In addition, the mechanical grease overflow prevention system can be used with a wide range of supply/filling pumps and is compatible with any pump using a FlowMaster reservoir. 
Operating mechanically with no electricity required, the system features heavy-duty, all-steel construction with anti-corrosion plating to withstand harsh environments. Its high-pressure system shut-off valves are available in 1/2-inch NPT. The mechanical grease overflow prevention system can be operated with or without a Lincoln grease level sensor, which enables it to be connected to a grease level gauge at the fill station or in the cab. With operating pressures up to 517 bar (7,500 psi) , the system offers an operating temperature range of -40 to +65.5 °C (-40 to +150 °F) . 
The mechanical grease overflow prevention system is suitable for mining, aggregate and industrial applications, as well as for use on off-road construction equipment. Optional components are available for customized installation. 
Combining more than 100 years of SKF and Lincoln expertise, SKF offers the industry’s most complete portfolio of innovative lubrication solutions – from manual lubricators and tools, to the most advanced centralized and automatic lubrication systems. 
For further information, please contact: 
Press Relations: Sandy Reinholdsson, +46 31 337 1825; +46 724 57 18 25; 

Aktiebolaget SKF 
(publ) 
SKF is a leading global supplier of bearings, seals, mechatronics, lubrication systems, and services which include technical support, maintenance and reliability services, engineering consulting and training. SKF is represented in more than 130 countries and has around 17,000 distributor locations worldwide. Annual sales in 2016 were SEK 72 787 million and the number of employees was 44 868. www.skf.com ® SKF is a registered trademark of the SKF Group. About Us 
SKF is a leading global supplier in the areas of bearings, seals, mechatronics, services and lubrication systems. The Group’s service offer includes technical support, maintenance services, engineering consultancy and training. Contacts