New grease filling filter for automatic lubrication systems Tue, Apr 03, 2018 09:00 CET 
SKF today announced the introduction of its Lincoln small grease reservoir filling filter. Part of SKF’s family of filtration products, this filter helps to minimize contaminants entering automatic lubrication systems during the filling process of smaller-sized reservoirs. 
Gothenburg, April 3rd: Installed as an inline component in the reservoir’s fill line, the filling filter helps to ensure that clean grease enters the reservoir and the system. As grease enters through the inlet, it passes through the filter and then exits into a hose that is connected to the grease reservoir’s fill port. As the filter element becomes clogged, the unit’s clogged-indicator pin starts to retract, signaling that filter element cleaning is required. If the clogged filter element is not cleaned, grease will vent safely to a catch container but will not bypass to the reservoir. 
The easy-to-install Lincoln small grease reservoir filling filter is available with either a 250- or 500-micron, crush-proof filter element, which is simple to clean. It has a fill rate of up to 8 liters/min (2 gal/min) * and operating pressure of 344 bar (5,000 psi) . The filter’s compact size makes remote mounting from the reservoir possible. 
The Lincoln small grease reservoir filling filter is suitable for off-road construction, small mining equipment, general industry, wind energy, over-the-road trucking, construction and agricultural applications. 
Combining more than 100 years of SKF and Lincoln expertise, SKF offers the industry’s most complete portfolio of innovative lubrication solutions – from manual lubricators and tools, to the most advanced centralized and automatic lubrication systems. 
* Dependent on application, type of grease and ambient temperature 
For further information, please contact: 
Press Relations: Sandy Reinholdsson, +46 31 337 182; +46 724 57 18 25; 

Aktiebolaget SKF 
(publ) 
SKF is a leading global supplier of bearings, seals, mechatronics, lubrication systems, and services which include technical support, maintenance and reliability services, engineering consulting and training. SKF is represented in more than 130 countries and has around 17,000 distributor locations worldwide. Annual sales in 2016 were SEK 72 787 million and the number of employees was 44 868. www.skf.com ® SKF is a registered trademark of the SKF Group. About Us 
SKF is a leading global supplier in the areas of bearings, seals, mechatronics, services and lubrication systems. The Group’s service offer includes technical support, maintenance services, engineering consultancy and training. Contacts