Alternative fuels 
Both Scania trucks and Sweden’s cross-country ski team perform best when they have the right fuel. 
On the face of it, you wouldn’t think that a Scania truck and a member of Sweden’s cross-country ski team would have anything in common, other than Scania being the proud sponsor of this Olympic medal-winning team. 
But both the trucks and these elite athletes need the right fuel to perform at their best. Skiers fueled by carbohydrates 
In the case of our skiing heroes, that means masses of carbohydrates, including pasta, bread or a good hamburger. Even the odd chokladboll (chocolate ball) or cake sometimes feature too. 
Of course, for Scania trucks, sweet treats don’t cut it, even if the driver might enjoy a few now and then. But the company does use a wide range of other fuels, as Eva Iverfeldt, Technical Manager, Fuels, explains. A wide range of sustainable fuels 
“Diesel has traditionally been the fuel for heavy trucks, but Scania uses more sustainable fuels such as ethanol, natural gas, biogas and a couple of types of biodiesel,” says Iverfeldt. 
“The reason we work with various types of fuels because different parts of the world have access to different types of fuel. In Sweden, biogas has become a very big fuel product, while in Southeast Asia biodiesel is very common.” 
Scania is also working with electricity, as battery-electric and other electric solutions become an increasing force in the heavy vehicle industry. However, Iverfeldt explains that the company believes the combustion engine will be around for a long time yet, and Scania has done much to reduce the emission of nitrogen oxide particles through its advanced aftertreatment technology and alternative fuel solutions. Sustainable production protects the environment 
“The most important thing is that the electricity and alternative fuels used to power trucks are sustainably produced,” says Iverfeldt. 
“Scania wants to minimise our impact on the environment, so we in Sweden can keep our snowy winters and so our skiers can continue to shine.” Images