Press Room Swedish Foreign Service action plan for feminist foreign policy 2015–2018, including indicative measures for 2018 Global gender equality is still a vision – not a reality. Sweden’s feminist government wants to make this vision a reality. Gender equality is an objective in itself, but it is also essential for the achievement of the Government’s other overall objectives, such as peace, security and sustainable development. Download: Swedish Foreign Service action plan for feminist foreign policy 2015–2018, including indicative measures for 2018 (pdf 583 kB) 
This is why gender equality and human rights efforts must continue unabated, and we have also gone a step further. Since 2014 Sweden has been the first country in the world to pursue a feminist foreign policy.Countless women and girls still experience a glaring lack of rights, representation and resources. Feminist foreign policy will help to achieve concrete results that enhance both gender equality and the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls. 
The focus is on strengthening women's and girls' rights, representation and resources. 
This will be done by implementing systematic gender mainstreaming, based on knowledge and analysis, throughout the foreign policy agenda, not least in peace and security efforts. 
This action plan sets the direction of feminist foreign policy action to be taken by the Swedish Foreign Service, guided by six long-term objectives. The Swedish Foreign Service will contribute to all women's and girls': 1. full enjoyment of human rights; 2. freedom from physical, psychological and sexual violence; 3. participation in preventing and resolving conflicts, and post-conflict peacebuilding, 4. political participation and influence in all areas of society; 5. economic rights and empowerment; and 6. sexual and reproductive health and rights (SRHR). 
These are broad objectives to match broad challenges, cover the entire global agenda and bring the whole range of foreign policy tools into play. This will enable the Foreign Service to promote the full enjoyment of human rights by all women and girls, including by combating all forms of violence and discrimination that restrict their freedom of action. 
Published