US-based Longroad Energy Selects Greenbyte for Data Management Wed, Apr 04, 2018 09:21 CET 
Longroad Energy has selected Greenbyte to support their O&M, Asset Management and Remote Monitoring of 1.2 GW of wind and solar projects across the US. 
By bringing a modern, technology-agnostic approach to wind and solar data management, Greenbyte is a key partner to Longroad. The Greenbyte services, Bright for solar plant management and Breeze for wind farm management, are being used by Longroad in their remote operations center and by project stakeholders to monitor plant performance and availability. Longroad’s technical services team also leverages Breeze and Bright for data analysis, automated fault detection and reporting. 
Longroad Energy, based in Boston, MA, is a developer, owner and operator of renewable energy assets in the US. Prior to the formation of the company in 2016, the Longroad team worked together for over ten years to successfully develop, finance, construct and operate 33 utility-scale wind and solar projects totaling over 3,300 MW. 
“Greenbyte is a key part of Longroad’s strategy to deliver industry-leading O&M and Asset Management service to project owners. Our highly trained and experienced team leverages Greenbyte’s technology to optimize project performance and maximize long-term value,” says Jeremy Law, Director of Operations at Longroad. 
“We are excited to bring Longroad Energy on as a customer. Longroad Energy represents a new breed of companies that combine operational experience across technologies, scale, professionalism and agility to align them for success in the fast-paced US market,” says Jonas Corné, CEO at Greenbyte. 
About Longroad Energy Founded in 2016, Longroad Energy is a Boston, MA-headquartered renewable energy developer focused on the development and operation of wind and solar energy projects throughout North America. In addition to developing, financing, and constructing renewable energy projects, Longroad provides operations and asset management services to wind and solar projects across the US. Longroad has the ability to be the long-term operator and asset manager for the projects it develops or on behalf of third party owners. 
Tags: renewable energy , USA , Wind power , Wind energy , solar pv , solar power , Solar energy , renewable electricity , wind farm , wind turbine , breeze , Greenbyte , Bright , Wind Farm Management , Wind Turbine Owner , Wind Turbine Operator , Wind Farm Management Software , solar PV management , Longroad Energy About Us 
Greenbyte makes the industry leading independent renewable energy management systems Breeze and Bright – used globally by wind energy and solar PV owners, operators and asset managers to capture the full potential of renewable energy projects. Power plants are remotely connected to Greenbyte’s software via on-site SCADA systems – resulting in a single powerful tool to monitor, analyze, plan and control diverse renewable energy portfolios of any size. Currently over 12 GW of renewable energy across 5 continents and 25+ countries are monitored in Greenbyte’s software. Contacts