Silobreaker Daily Cyber Digest – 04 April 2018 
Malware 
Lazarus Group deploy malicious tools including KillDisk malware to target Central American casino According to ESET, Lazarus targeted an online casino and other targets using KillDisk on compromised machines. The tools detected being used alongside KillDisk were reportedly designed to run as a Windows service, and were detected by ESET as Win32/NukeSped or Win64/NukeSped on 100 endpoints and servers in the casino’s system. Lazarus also used a browser password dump and a modified Mimikatz version in the attack. Machines are initially infected by malicious droppers and loaders which download and install the tools. ESET surmised that KillDisk was used in the attack to hide an espionage operation, or for extortion and sabotage. 

Festi Rootkit observed in the wild distributed by RIG exploit Kit The new variant of Festi comes with a new dropper that masquerades as an Adobe Flash Player update, encouraging victims to click ‘install’ to gain elevated privileges via UAC. Following this, the dropper extracts the rootkit embedded in the data section, decrypts it and loads it as a kernel driver using WinAPI functions. The new rootkit variant employs tricks to evade endpoint security products and supports different plugins that allow it to customise functionality. Checkpoint researchers have observed that the source code for the rootkit has been significantly recompiled from the earlier version. 

Malicious code used in Newsweek Media Group ad fraud found on Christian Media Corporation sites DoubleVerify originally detected the code on Newsweek Media Group websites, and has now discovered it on Christian Media Corporation’s online publication. The two organizations are closely linked through research and development agreements with Olivet University. The malicious code allows publishers to earn revenue from advertisements that do not meet industry standards. DoubleVerify discovered the code on nine CMC sites: christianpost[.]com, christiantimes[.]com, christianitydaily[.]com, christiantoday[.]com, christianexaminer[.]com, crossmap[.]com, breathecast[.]com, bibleportal[.]com, and gnli[.]com. Both CMC and NMG were reported buying and manipulating ad network traffic to disguise it as high-quality referral traffic, a form of ad fraud. Leaks & Breaches 
Flashpoint discover over 1,000 Magneto stores hacked and infected with malicious scripts The Magneto sites were compromised through brute-force attacks using common default Magneto credentials. Flashpoint observed that the most common practice after the attackers gained access was to insert malicious code into the Magneto core files, allowing the attackers to log payment card information. The attackers also used cryptojacking scripts to mine Monero on the computers of store visitors and in some cases attempted to redirect some of the visitors to malicious sites that tried to trick users into downloading and installing malware on their computers. The most common redirection site used offered a fake Adobe Flash Player update packages, which would infect users with the AZORult infostealers. Most of the infected sites were associated with the education and healthcare sectors, predominantly hosted on servers in the EU and US. Researchers believe that the sites discovered are only a small sample of the total compromised. 

Anonymous collective reportedly targeted Israeli sites to display pro-Palestinian messages Homepages for the websites for Kfar Saba, Eilat, Herzliya and Acre were changed to display the message ‘Jerusalem is the capital of Palestine’ with images of clashes between Palestinian protester and Israeli forces along the Gaza border over the weekend. Websites for Israel’s national opera, a hospital in Hadera and the local council for the city of Gan Yavne were also defaced. The defacements are thought to be part of Anonymous’s annual OpIsrael cyber campaign. 

Several US natural gas pipeline companies affected by third-party communications system cyber attack Energy Transfer Partners, Boardwalk Pipeline Partners, and Chesapeake Utilities Corporation were affected by the attack. Those 3 energy companies did not suffer operational interruptions, but their Electronic Data Interchange system experienced issues due to a targeted attack of Energy Services Group’s Latitude Technologies unit. ONEOK INC. suffered no disruption but disabled the communication service as a precaution. 

Live chat widgets leak high-profile firms’ employees’ personal data Two widgets are used by many websites run by large corporations, including Google, Verizon, Spring, Bank of America, PayPal, Sony, Disney and more. When a hacker engages in a live chat with one of the site’s support employees, the latter’s personal information including name, email address, supervision information, location and more is revealed. The information could be used to carry out social engineering attacks on the various companies. LiveChat and TouchCommerce run the two chat widgets.