Matica XID8300 certified by Lenel Munich, Germany Diverse security features help to secure the environment and cards from counterfeiting and to avoid misuse of personal information. 
Lenel Technologies, a global leader in advanced security systems, has successfully certified Matica’s XID8300 retransfer card printer for their security platform, Onguard in printing and magnetic encoding. Onguard hardware’s compatibility chart for versions 7.3 and 7.4 has been recently published by Lenel reflecting this compatibility. 
Lenel's Onguard is an open security platform, which integrates seamlessly with Onguard video, intrusion, access and fire products, offering remote access and management. Last version 7.4 delivers a fully browser-based experience to many users. With both alarm and cardholder management available through web browsers, Onguard users will be able to access the platform using a computer, laptop, or tablet. Onguard version 7.4 has also been validated by Lenel for Cloud Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS) deployment in Microsoft Azure, meaning little, or no, on-site software installation will be required for simpler applications. 
“We are proud about this recognition from Lenel Technologies,” said Ricard Ferrer, Global Marketing Director for Matica. “Built from our industry proven and extremely reliable retransfer engine, the XID8300 offers a solution to the most demanding card issuance projects. The certification and integration with Onguard reinforces our partnership and expands opportunities for both parties.” 
With its compact size, the printer delivers the right combination of reliability, performance and affordability for printing durable and secure cards. The Matica XID8300 prints on a variety of card materials including long-lasting, durable non-PVC cards such as ABS, PET, and Polycarbonate. The printer can be equipped with a number of encoding options such as magnetic encoding, contact and contactless chip encoding to provide Onguard users with several choices. 
Diverse security features such as dye-sublimation UV ink ribbon for invisible security printing, IPSEC for encrypted data transfer through networks, and security erase of black data on used supplies, help to secure the environment and cards from counterfeiting and to avoid misuse of personal information. Tags