New Chief Commercial Officer at TFS International Search for content, post, videos Share 
The company announces that Dr Andrew Copestake has accepted the position of Chief Commercial Officer and Executive Vice President, Global Business Development. 
Copestake is an entrepreneurial, commercially focused, senior executive with over 25 years’ experience in the pharmaceutical, biotechnology and CRO industry. His most recent role was with Julius Clinical, a science-driven CRO based in the Netherlands, where he held the position of Chief Business Development Officer. Previous roles have included a number of senior leadership positions in business development and general management, including six years as CEO of a Swedish biotechnology company. 
“We are delighted to welcome Andrew into our TFS family where he will lead our commercial activities.” said Dr János Filakovský, Chief Executive Officer. “Andrew has truly global experience and brings with him a deep understanding of our Biopharmaceutical Services industry, in combination with outstanding technical and leadership skills. We are looking forward to him joining to further accelerate our capabilities, service offerings and strengthen our strategic customer relationship strategy.” International roles 
The majority of Andrew’s experience has been in international roles and he has lived and worked in the UK, US, Japan, Sweden and the Netherlands. He has managed diverse business development teams. 
“I am very excited to be joining TFS. As one of the leading mid-sized, global CROs, TFS is well placed to take advantage of the significant growth opportunity in this sector. As we see many CROs increasing in scale, our customers are failing to experience increasing levels of service, whilst simultaneously facing rising costs, and reduced market choice. By offering excellent customer experience combined with global capabilities and competitive pricing, TFS can present a truly differentiated service, which will result in significant benefits for clients, patients and employees. It will be my responsibility to help guide TFS through this exciting phase of development and I am grateful to János, the TFS board and the leadership team for offering me this wonderful opportunity,” says Andrew Copestake. 
Dr Copestake will be based out of the TFS offices in London.