The Cords & Co have launched their crowdfunding campaign, “a dream coming true” for the founders, all shareholders receive a discount for life. Thu, Apr 05, 2018 08:00 CET 
On March 28th, The Cords & Co launched their crowdfunding campaign together with FundedByMe. An initiative that has been a dream for the founders already from the beginning. The campaign is a strategic part of the company's ambition to give everyone a chance to become an owner in a global fashion company. 
"I think this sounds silly to say but crowdfunding is a dream coming true to me! When we presented this project almost three years ago to the investors and the group of people involved, we had, on the last page of the agenda: when we reach a certain level, we're gonna go on a crowdfunding campaign to build true ambassadors, people who love the project, so that we can find people to talk about us, because if people are engaged financially and product-wise and in the concept, they're gonna talk about us - they're gonna be our missionaries out, so this is a huge day, and the fact that we can get this going" . states Mikael Söderlindh, co-founder of The Cords & Co. 
The Cords & Co was first launched in August 2017 and has subsequently expanded globally in a very short period of time with 6 stores in fashion capitals worldwide, including Paris, LA, Stockholm, London and New York. The Cords & Co is also available at retailers in 20 markets worldwide. The company is now aiming to establish the brand even further with the help of its shareholders and ensure that corduroy is associated with The Cords & Co, especially considering that the fabric is already seen as one of the great fashion trends globally. 
"We are very proud to present this unique opportunity together with The Cords & Co. With the awesome journey they have behind Happy Socks, it will be exciting to follow their new venture. With crowdfunding we are convinced that the opportunities for establishing passionate brand ambassadors will increase." , emphasises Joachim Dworén, Sales Manager at FundedByMe. 
The unique collaboration between The Cords & Co and FundedByMe was published on March 28th and is open for 30 days , during which The Cords & Co hope to raise up to 2.5 million €. For more details on the campaign, please visit: https://thecords.com/fundedbyme or email fundedbyme@thecords.com 
ABOUT THE CORDS & CO 
The Cords & Co was founded by Mikael Söderlindh and Viktor Tell in 2016, and together with 
other knowledgeable people such as Carl Manneh. The Cords & Co's aim is to be the corduroy alternative to denim within the fashion world and to provide fashion lovers with high quality corduroy products whilst shaping a new corduroy culture. August 2017 marked The Cords & Co's official launch of 6 flagship stores in fashion capitals worldwide including Paris, New York, LA, Stockholm and London. The Cords & Co's collections are also available at various retailers in 20 markets worldwide, alongside their own shop online. For more information, please visit: www.thecords.com . 
Tags: investors , finance , investment , equity , Invest , Fundedbyme , crowdfunding , FinTech , equity crowdfunding , equitycrowdfunding , unlisted , The cords and co , fashionnews About Us 
FundedByMe is the fastest growing crowdfunding platform in Scandinavia and one of the only full-service platforms offering capital through equity crowdfunding. In the past years, some 470 companies from 25 different countries have been successfully funded with more than €49 million. The member base is a rapidly expanding network of more than 109,000 investors from nearly 200 countries around the world. FundedByMe is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, with a local presence in Dubai, Finland, Malaysia, Poland and Singapore. For more information visit www.fundedbyme.com Contacts