5 april, 2018 at 14:24 
Kritiska röster 
Britain behaving like ‘mafia state’ in Skripal case – OSCE ex-VP Willy Wimmer 
Britain’s behavior in the Skripal poisoning scandal is “a major danger to international peace,” believes Willy Wimmer, who held the vp position with the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) assembly from 1994 to 2000, and who had previously served as state secretary to Germany’s defense minister. 
“I think we would call this state a mafia state because it is against all European and international rules and regulations how the British government has behaved in a criminal case with regard to another country,” Wimmer told RT. 
The UK has a history of pressing forward warmongering rhetoric, Wimmer said, recalling Britain’s decision to go to war in Iraq. “We, as Europeans, have an experience with the British. We only have to look back to Tony Blair. They lie from one war into the next one.” The long awaited Chilcot report, published in 2016, offered a damning critique of Blair, stating that he deliberately exaggerated the threat posed by the Iraqi regime and had relied on “flawed” intelligence. 
“And that is why I think as long as the British don’t behave in a proper, legal, international way, I think we all should believe that this is another British lie, at least to go for war against Russia,” Wimmer added. https://www.rt.com/uk/423234-britain-skripal-mafia-state-wimmer/ 
Evidence before solidarity: German official blasts UK, allies for blaming Russia in Skripal case 
The minister president of Germany’s most populous state has lambasted the UK for prematurely pinning the blame for the Skripal poisoning case on Russia, writing that you need “sound evidence” before asking allies for solidarity. 
Armin Laschet, the leader of North Rhine-Westphalia and a deputy chairman of Angela Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union (CDU), took to Twitter after the UK’s Porton Down government laboratory announced on Tuesday that it could not link nerve agent samples it had collected to Russia. 
“If you force almost all NATO countries to show solidarity, shouldn’t you have sound evidence?” Laschet said. “You can think of Russia what you want, but I have learned a different way of dealing with states studying international law.” https://www.rt.com/news/423184-laschet-russia-nato-skripal/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=RSS 
Austrian Chancellor Explains Why Vienna Refused to Expel Russian Diplomats 
Austrian Chancellor Sebastian Kurz named several reasons for Vienna’s decision not to expel Russian diplomats at London’s behest amid the controversial Skripal case. 
“We have good relations with Russia now. We are a neutral country and home to the headquarters of many international organizations such as the UN and OSCE; hundreds of diplomats come here to have talks on neutral ground. That’s why we can develop the role of a bridge between nations,” said Kurz.