Publicerad 2018-04-05 10:17 
EF Education First is looking for an experienced Legal Counsel based in London 
The EF Group is looking for an ambitious and experienced business lawyer who wants an exciting job in a very international environment. The position is based in London and reports to the General Counsel of the EF Group. 
In this role you will be involved in a broad range of areas and provide legal advice as well as proactive support to the business in a variety of legal matters all over the world. For this purpose, you need to have a strong drive, high integrity, excellent communication skills and an ability to build relationships at all levels. You must demonstrate a strong ability to solve practical problems in addition to complex legal issues and adopt a pragmatic approach and common sense to align the legal requirements with the needs of the business. Our environment is strongly driven by an entrepreneurial spirit and you need to enjoy challenges and thrive in a fast-paced work environment. 
You should be a bright, highly adaptable and commercially minded lawyer with a minimum of 7 years of relevant legal experience preferably gained at a leading law firm. Fluency in Swedish is required and you should have an excellent command of English, both written and spoken, as the role requires the ability to negotiate contracts and provide concise legal advice in business English. A British law degree and/or experience in UK law is considered a merit. International work experience is a plus. 
EF is experiencing a strong growth in all business areas and you would work within a very interesting, entrepreneurial and ambitious business environment. The role offers a fantastic opportunity to join a truly global organization with good prospects for both personal and professional development. 
Apply HERE 
If you are interested in this position, please submit your application in English along with a CV, a copy of your law degree and all other relevant certificates as soon as possible . Interviews may be conducted continuously. 
EF Education First is a leading international education group focusing on language, academics, educational travel, and cultural experience. EF’s mission is to open the world through education and has for more than 50 years helped millions of people learn a language, discover the world or earn an academic degree. EF is privately held, has three divisions divided into fourteen business units and is associated with several not-for-profit organizations, including the well renowned Hult International Business School. EF has over 530 schools and offices in over 50 countries and employs over 45,000 staff, faculty and teachers. 
The EF Group is an entrepreneurial non-hierarchical business with tremendous growth prospects and is characterized by its dynamic, well-educated and international employees . In today’s increasingly complex and interdependent world EF’s mission is more relevant than ever. Platsannons