Bil / Lynk & Co 
Efter tidigare teasers presenterar Lynk & Co idag 02. Det är en liten crossover och precis som den lite större modellen 01 bygger bilen på samma plattform som Volvo XC40. Idag blev även klart att Lynks bilar kommer att byggas på Volvos fabrik i Gent, Belgien. Man meddelar även att man tagit fram ett samarbete med e-commerce-plattformen Tictail och där lanserar man The City Dweller Series som är en kollektion med modeprylar. 
02 är designad av ett internationellt team i Göteborg och skapad för unga människor. Andreas Nilsson som är Head of Design på företaget säger följande: 
"Sporty, adventurous, dynamic, daring, confident and fun, the 02 is the absolute centre of gravity of our brand and the heart of what Lynk & Co is all about. A shorter wheelbase, lower ride height and centre of gravity, combined with two-tone colour-schemes and softer, voluptuous surfaces, muscular haunches and wheel-arches, give the 02 a solid and confident stance while being agile and sporty in character. Immediately identifiable as a member of the Lynk & Co family, it also has its own distinct character and look." 
2020 kommer försäljningen av bilarna att dra igång i Europa och det hela kommer att ske via små popup-butiker på strategiska platser. Den första kommer att öppna i Amsterdam och sen följer Barcelona, Berlin, Bryssel och London. Man ska även kunna handla via nätet. 
Roger är på avtäckningen och kommer senare att lägga ut en artikel med information om bilen och sina tankar om den. Visa Pressmeddelande Lynk & Co reveals the 02 crossover SUV along with design collaboration with Tictail and European roll-out plans Today in Amsterdam, urban mobility brand Lynk & Co revealed their third car in line-up: the 02. At the launch party, they also confirmed a partnership with the disruptive e commerce platform Tictail, a line of pop-up stores across Europe and European production base in Belgium. Less than two years ago, urban mobility brand Lynk & Co was launched in Berlin with the ambition to disrupt the automobile industry by redefining the process of buying, owning and using a car. With the sharable and ultra-connected 02, Lynk & Co enters the fast-growing crossover SUV segment. The new 02 crossover SUV The 02 is a crossover SUV with a fluid, sporty look and a rugged, durable feel, designed and engineered by an international team in Gothenburg, Sweden. Created for the young (and young at heart), it is a fun, expressive car that enables everyday urban adventures. Combining a hatchback body and a SUV chassis, the 02 features many of the instantly recognisable Lynk & Co family design cues. “Sporty, adventurous, dynamic, daring, confident and fun, the 02 is the absolute centre of gravity of our brand and the heart of what Lynk & Co is all about. A shorter wheelbase, lower ride height and centre of gravity, combined with two-tone colour-schemes and softer, voluptuous surfaces, muscular haunches and wheel-arches, give the 02 a solid and confident stance while being agile and sporty in character. Immediately identifiable as a member of the Lynk & Co family, it also has its own distinct character and look”, says Andreas Nilsson, Head of Design Lynk & Co. First design collaboration with Tictail Also announced today was Lynk & Co’s first design collaboration with the disruptive e-commerce platform Tictail. Entitled “The City Dweller Series”, this range of fashion and homewear will be designed by Tictail’s community of independent designers and sold through its digital platform. Tictail shares the same core values as Lynk & Co and was selected as a partner due to their strong community integration, simplicity of use, and attractive, customisable design. “Fiercely independent, committed to bucking the trend, and always offering our community just what they want but on the most personalised of terms. This ethos describes both Tictail and Lynk & Co, and from the launch of Lynk & Co in 2016, I was inspired by the brand’s vision. I am delighted to jointly announce this collaboration today – not as a partner, or an ambassador, but as a true fan and believer”, says Carl Waldekranz Rivera, founder and CEO of Tictail. Pop-up stores across Europe & European production in Ghent Lynk & Co also confirmed a 2020 sales start in Europe and revealed their European roll-out plan. Lynk & Co will ditch traditional dealerships to open Offline Stores - small, sociable brand boutiques in urban districts. The first store will open in Amsterdam, quickly followed by Barcelona, Berlin, Brussels and London. Supporting the city stores in Europe will be the online store at Lynkco.com, together with the Lynk & Co Offline Tour – mobile pop-up stores that will roll around Europe on trucks – picking up all key cities that initially won’t have a store presence. In addition, Lynk & Co announced a European production base in Ghent, Belgium at the award- winning manufacturing base for sister company, Volvo Cars. “Sales and production started in China late last year, and we quickly established Lynk & Co as a very hot property in cities from Beijing to Shanghai. We intend to make a similar impact in our home European cities with Lynk & Co’s innovative approach to buying, using and owning personal mobility. We will manufacture in Europe, for Europe, focusing initially on hybrid-only electrified derivatives of our new range of cars – further expanded today with the 02”, says Alain Visser, Senior Vice President of Lynk & Co. ABOUT LYNK & CO LYNK & CO is the new global urban mobility brand addressing the needs and preferences of the connected generation and challenging auto industry conventions. With a range of connected technologies on offer in its vehicles, from a sharing function with the world’s first in-car share button, to wireless charging and a dedicated Lynk & Co app store – Lynk & Co is set to redefine the process of buying, owning and using a car. Its products are designed and engineered in Sweden and will be sold globally. Visit us at lynkco.com