Milan Where to find the best afternoon tea in Milan 
Italy may be one of the world’s leading coffee pioneers, with coffee shops and cafés lining almost every street in Milan, yet the city does offer plenty for the discerning tea drinker. Here we take you through some of the best tearooms in Milan, including the top places to take afternoon tea in the city City Guide 
Cova Milan 
Palazzo Parigi Characterised by a stunning blend of Milanese and Parisian design, Palazzo Parigi is a charming and sophisticated place to take afternoon tea in Milan. Located in the Brera district, the luxury hotel is a stone’s throw away from the famous Via della Spiga street so head here, after a day exploring the city’s boutiques, to indulge in afternoon tea. From 5pm to 7pm the hotel offers a chic afternoon tea in collaboration with celebrated French patisserie Ladurée. Choose between the classic afternoon tea, with an assortment of finger sandwiches, pastries and macaroons, or afternoon tea a la Française, with an added glass of champagne. Palazzo Parigi , Corso di Porto Nuova 1, 20121 Milan, +39 02 625625 
Four Seasons Hotel Milan Located in the heart of the city’s fashion district, the Four Seasons Hotel Milan is a special place to celebrate. The impressive hotel is one of the most luxurious in Milan and with superb dining, spa facilities and a great cocktail bar, it is a top choice for those looking to visit the city in style. The large granite pillars in the elegant Il Foyer lounge were part of the site’s original 15th century convent and is a truly grand place to take afternoon tea. Guests can choose from an impressive range of 29 types of tea as part of the Il Foyer afternoon tea and the selection of savoury and sweet treats will keep everyone happy. Four Seasons Hotel Milan , Via Gesù 6-8, 20121 Milan, +39 02 77088 
Cova Cova is one of the most famous cafés in Milan and has been at its present location since the 1950s. Located on the stylish Via Montenapoleone, Cova is the perfect place to enjoy some of the finest pastries and cakes in the city. Alongside a sophisticated breakfast and lunch menu, the afternoon tea is a real draw and a favourite with the fashionable Milanese crowd. It is composed of classic, freshly brewed tea, an assortment of small rolls and finger sandwiches as well as beautiful cakes and buttery biscuits. A truly elegant location, this is a perfect place to refuel or toast a special occasion. Cova , Via Montenpoleone 8, 20121 Milan, +39 02 7600 5599 
Giacomo Located inside the Palazzo Reale palace, just a short walk away from the Duomo di Milano cathedral, Giacomo is a lovely, stylish place to while away an hour or so over tea and cakes. The literary café allows you to soak up Milan’s cultural offering while indulging in truly delicious treats. Head here for afternoon tea and enjoy the impressive selection of delicacies as you admire the books and art. Giacomo , Piazza del Duomo 12, 20121 Milan, +39 02 8909 6698 
Farage Cioccolato Those looking to satisfy their sweet tooth are sure to love Farage Cioccolato, one of the most revered chocolate shops in Milan. The elegant location is the perfect fit for its indulgent pastries and pralines, and the afternoon tea here is a great way to sample some of the best on offer. An incredible array of tea, hot chocolate and special coffees accompany delicate dessert options, from miniature pastries to chocolate mousse to puddings with exotic fruits. If you’re looking for one of the best hot chocolates in Milan, we recommend you indulge in the white hot chocolate with Marsala and butter biscuit. Farage Cioccolato , Via Brera 5, 20121 Milan, +39 02 7862 3698 