Expert Reviews User Reviews Disclaimer: Below is a list of reviews for this or similar products. If you think this grouping is wrong please click here to flag. Read more on our FAQ’s page . Showing 1 - 4 of 4 Show Reviews: in English Expert review by : Jim Fisher (pcmag.com) Olympus PEN E-PL9 The Olympus PEN E-PL9 is, for the most part, the same mirrorless camera as the E-PL8, but adds a built-in flash and 4K video. Snappy autofocus. 8.5fps burst shooting. In-body image stabilization. 4K video. Slim, attractive design. Tilting touch LCD. Built-in flash. Wi-Fi and Bluetooth. Aging 16MP image sensor. No EVF or add-on option. 4K video not easily accessible. Small Raw shooting buffer. I'm being a bit kinder to the E-PL9 than I was to the E-M10 Mark III, which I reviewed earlier this year and gave a lower rating. Price is one factor, as the E-M10 is $50 more. Market is another; the PEN's appeal is to entry-level shooters, while the... Apr, 2018 Expert review by : Michael Palmer (steves-digicams.com) Olympus PEN E-PL9 Something happened over the past few years that has been great for the photography world. As the cameras on smartphones have gotten better and better it's forced the large camera manufacturers to step up their game. Yes, their cameras have always taken... Apr, 2018 Expert review by : Mike Tomkins (imaging-resource.com) Olympus E-PL9 Review So who's the PL9 for? Like every preceding model in the line, the Olympus PL9 is an extremely affordable camera aimed at the budget-minded photographer who nevertheless wants interchangeable-lens, mirrorless camera versatility, from bloggers and... As we noted at the outset, the Olympus PL9 has thus far been announced only outside of the US market. Pricing in the UK market is set at Â£580 or thereabouts when sold body-only (that's roughly US$670 before tax, at current exchange rates). The PL9 is... Feb, 2018 Expert review by : Michael Topham (trustedreviews.com) Olympus PEN E-PL9 first look The Olympus PEN E-PL9 is aimed at beginners and bloggers after a stylish and fashionable interchangeable lens camera that's superior to a smartphone. Feb, 2018