Press Room Government marks anniversary of terror attack on Drottninggatan On 7 April, the City of Stockholm and the Government will mark the anniversary of the terror attack on Drottninggatan. Several members of the Government will attend a memorial service and Prime Minister Stefan Löfven will deliver a speech at a memorial concert in Kungsträdgården. After the memorial service at Adolf Fredrik's Church Prime Minister Stefan Löfven thanks representatives of the police, the emergency services staff, the medical staff and others who made important contributions on 7 April last year. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices King Carl XVI Gustaf, Queen Silvia and Archbishop Antje Jackelén before the memorial service at Adolf Fredrik's Church in Stockholm. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices Several government ministers on their way to the memorial service at Adolf Fredrik's Church in Stockholm. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices Gustav Fridolin, Minister for Education, arrives to the memorial service at Adolf Fredrik's Church in Stockholm. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and his wife Ulla put flowers at the spot where the attack took Place. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices 
The commemoration will begin at 12.00 with a memorial service at Adolf Fredrik's Church for relatives, people particularly affected, police officers, emergency services staff, medical staff and others who made important contributions on 7 April last year. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and many other government ministers will attend. The memorial service will be led by Vicar Annika Millde. Archbishop Antje Jackelén, Bishop Eva Brunne and representatives of Stockholm's interreligious council IRIS will also take part. 
At around 14.15–15.00 there will be a memorial concert in Kungsträdgården organised by the City of Stockholm to honour the victims and their families, and to remind us all that Stockholm is and should be an open and democratic city. Stefan Löfven will deliver a speech during the concert. Government's work to combat terrorism 
Since the terror attack on Drottninggatan on 7 April 2017, the Government's work to combat terrorism has intensified. Here are a few examples of measures taken over the past year. In June 2017, cross-party agreements were reached on additional anti-terrorism measures. Criminal anti-terrorism legislation will be further tightened and made more comprehensive. Tightened regulations will make it possible to intervene earlier against people who intend to commit terrorist offences. The Government has proposed total reinforcements for the period 2017–2020 of SEK 9.8 billion to the Swedish Police Authority and SEK 213 million to the Swedish Security Service. 
All information about the Government's work to combat terrorism is available at: