Towards a sustainable transport system 26 March 2018 About Scania | Driving the shift 
The world urgently needs to break the correlation between increasing demand for transport, and increasing carbon emissions, noise, congestion and accidents. Therefore we are researching, developing and promoting sustainable solutions for cleaner and safer transport of people and goods. 
Sustainable transport is all about moving people and goods while contributing to economic and social development without jeopardising human health and safety or endangering the environment. 
We are approaching a tipping point, where the convergence of new technology and business models will result in a state where sustainable transport solutions will take off and become the “new normal” and the current unsustainable solutions will be phased out. The future of transport will be decarbonised, clean, electrified, automatised and digitalised. 
To some this state may seem like a vision of a distant future, and there is no doubt that this future is approaching at different speeds depending on where you are in the world and what industry you operate in. For Scania, this change is happening now, through our technology road maps, research and development plans, and through partnerships. Coalitions of organisations, cities, nations and businesses will lead the way and we are already working closely with them to take a leading role in this new ecosystem. The world is being profoundly affected by climate change, urbanisation and digitalisation, and we cannot and will not wait for someone else to take action. Accelerating change 
For Scania we approach the sustainable transport challenge using our flow thinking. Just as we apply flow thinking to help take out waste from our production and logistics systems, the same approach goes for pursuing our long-term aim. It is really about influencing the flow by seeking to find the shortest distance and time to our desired state, accelerated by strategic partnership and innovation. 
On this fascinating journey we are bringing with us the building blocks that made us a successful company; our corporate culture, our modular system, but also our access to a huge population of connected vehicle data. 
We are also bringing with us innovations, products and services that are already proving the viability of sustainable transport, such as our wide range of engines running on renewable fuels and our new generation truck range as well as a comprehensive palette of productivity-enhancing services. 
But perhaps most importantly of all, we take with us our close customer relationships, and the trust our customers continuously give us to support them in reaching their business goals, today and tomorrow. By being at the leading edge of this change journey Scania is better positioned to help our customers maintain and improve their profitability in a fast changing world. 
At Scania, we believe that there is no single solution that will take us to a sustainable transport system. Rather a holistic approach is called for, considering the specific transport assignment and the maturity of the logistics and infrastructure in different parts of the world. With our three-pillar approach, we are constantly refining our ability to prepare customers for the future, while remaining agile to succeed as the shift occurs.