About Scania | Our approach to sustainable transport | Sustainable transport 
Today’s global growth and economic development increases the demand for road transport. Environmental and social impacts are prompting customers and consumers to demand more responsible business, adding to the constant pressures of just-in-time delivery schedules and tight profit margins. 
Competition in road transport has always been intense, but new technology and new entrants to the market will tighten margins even further for those who are not adapting to changing circumstances. In the age of e-commerce, transport service buyers and their end-customers expect fast deliveries and if operators want to compete they must respond. More and more embrace digitalisation to respond faster to customer shipment demands for purchase tracking and definite delivery times. 
But hauliers can’t afford to ignore the wider environmental, social and economic effects of road transport, either, to protect their margins and maintain a competitive edge. To survive and thrive, transport operators need to be lean, responsible and consumer focused; that’s where Scania comes in. Eliminating waste, creating value 
As the haulage industry has changed so has Scania, evolving from being only a heavy vehicle manufacturer to being part of the ecosystem of transport and logistics. 
With our holistic overview of the industry and knowledge of logistical flows, Scania truly understands our customers’ business. We analyse issues such as fuel consumption, driver performance, fleet management, supply chain waste and harmful emissions. Then we develop the solutions that hauliers need to be sustainable and profitable. 
For those buying Scania’s new truck generation, it starts with the hardware: an average fuel consumption saving of more than 5 percent, while our trucks address the emissions question by running on a range of alternative fuels. But driver performance is also crucial. Scania offers driver training and coaching, with techniques that increase fuel efficiency, road safety and sustainability while significantly reducing downtime and operating costs. Reducing downtime is also the integral aim of Scania Maintenance with Flexible Plans, where vehicles are maintained based on actual usage. 
Using connectivity, Scania has developed vehicle software systems for drivers and fleet owners, including Scania One, a digital marketplace for accessing, buying and administering Scania’s connected services from a single platform. Trailer Control gives transport operators the possibility to integrate crucial information on position and in-trailer temperature with tracking opportunities through the Scania Fleet Management system. And connectivity can help address one of the biggest challenges to the haulage industry today: the average truck fill rate in Europe is just between 50-60 percent,