Brighter’s diabetes solution Actiste wins the Red Dot Award for good design and quality. Mon, Apr 09, 2018 08:30 CET 
Brighter's unique diabetes solution Actiste, introduced to the market in December 2017, has been awarded the prestigious Red Dot Award, in the Product Design category. Actiste was developed in collaboration with the company's design and innovation partner Veryday. 
– We are very excited that Actiste received this award, which confirms that we have not only created a stylish but also a user-friendly product of high quality, says Truls Sjöstedt, Brighter's CEO and founder. Veryday, together with our internal development team, has made an amazing job creating a product we can be incredibly proud of. 
– The entire Veryday design team congratulates Brighter and sends their best regards, says Marcus Heneen, Associate Design Director at Veryday. We realized early that Brighter was a fast-paced company that required an extremely agile and compressed process from us. Challenging, exciting and educational. We are very pleased to see that our joint efforts now are rewarded with this prestigious award. 
In July 2018 a ceremony will be held in Essen, Germany, for the winners. For a subsequent four-week period, Actiste, together with other innovations, will be exhibited in the Red Dot Design Museum Essen as part of the exhibition "Design on Stage - Winners Red Dot Award: Product Design 2018". 
– I want to congratulate the award winners sincerely on their wonderful success in the Red Dot Award: Product Design 2018. Success in the competition is proof of the good design quality of the products and once again shows that companies are on the right path. When I speak about good design, I am referring to more than just an attractive product. All of the products are characterised by outstanding functionality. This demonstrates that the designers have understood their clients and their needs, says Professor Dr. Peter Zec, founder and CEO of the Red Dot Award. 
About the Red Dot Design Award The Red Dot Award is the most prominent award in the design world and the competition is the world's largest annual design contest. The coveted red dot is acknowledged worldwide as a seal of quality for outstanding design. In 2018, designers and manufacturers from 59 countries reported over 6300 products to the competition. Further information available at www.red-dot.de . 
For more information, please contact: 
Truls Sjöstedt, CEO Telefon: +46 709 73 46 00 E-post: truls.sjostedt@brighter.se 
Telefon: +46 733 40 30 45 E-post: henrik.norstrom@brighter.se 
About Brighter Brighter is a Swedish-based company that, from a unique IP portfolio, creates smart solutions for one of the most serious healthcare problems: changing patient behavior. Chronic diseases such as diabetes are rapidly increasing and account for an increasing share of healthcare costs globally. Brighter's Business Model and Multi-Sided Market Platform - The Benefit Loop™ - is based on the fact that many special interests create value for each other. By increasing access to valid health data, Brighter creates value for all stakeholders in the care chain: patients and close associates, healthcare providers, research, pharmaceutical industry and society. www.brighter.se 
About Actiste Brighter's solution Actiste® handles most of the self-monitoring and treatment of insulin-treated diabetes in a single easy-to-use device. Measurement of glucose levels, insulin injection, and automatic logging and timing of all activity are done in a single unit. Actiste is connected via an autonomous and secure mobile connection, the information can be automatically shared with selected recipients through The Benefit Loop®, Brighter's open cloud-based service where data is collected, processed and analyzed. 
Validated user-generated data, such as glucose levels or insulin doses, can be automatically transferred electronically to many different constituents. The patient selects when and how data is shared and who will have access to it. Through The Benefit Loop, different services can motivate patients with chronic illnesses to change their behavior, which can save lives, reduce relatives ' concerns, and release enormous healthcare resources. www.actiste.com 
The Company's shares are listed on NASDAQOMX First North/BRIG . Brighter’s Certified Adviser on Nasdaq OMX First North is Remium Nordic Holding AB +46 (0)8 – 454 32 50, , www.remium.com . About Us 
Brighter is a Swedish-based company that, from a unique IP portfolio, creates smart solutions for one of the most serious healthcare problems: changing patient behavior. Chronic diseases such as diabetes are rapidly increasing and account for an increasing share of healthcare costs globally. Brighter's Business Model and Multi-Sided Market Platform - The Benefit Loop™ - is based on the fact that many special interests create value for each other. By increasing access to valid health data, Brighter creates value for all stakeholders in the care chain: patients and close associates, healthcare providers, research, pharmaceutical industry and society. The Company's shares are listed on NASDAQOMX First North/BRIG. Brighter’s Certified Adviser on Nasdaq OMX First North is Remium Nordic Holding AB +46 (0)8 – 454 32 50, , www.remium.com . Contacts