Lean solutions for industry value chains 26 March 2018 About Scania | Our approach to sustainable transport | Sustainable transport 
No matter whether it is a forest, a mine, a factory, a port or a construction site, the transport process is central to industries’ value chains. By re-thinking their transport set up, industries can realise efficiencies with significant benefits in regards to revenue, cost, efficiency and environmental impact. Scania’s vehicles, services and flow thinking help our customers eliminate waste. 
While industries focus on output, the importance of a smooth flow of materials is often overlooked. If the transport process is disrupted, so is the production process. Late deliveries cause delays along the whole chain, meaning longer production times and higher operating costs, reducing profitability, not to mention the adverse environmental impact such delays has. But Scania has developed products and services to minimise such disruptions. Scania’s approach 
The core of Scania’s approach to flows in industries is seeing the vehicles we make as part of the production value chain itself. Together with our customers, we analyse the logistic flows of their specific industry, from raw material to finished product. Hidden waste and inefficiency is identified and we suggest actions to improve those processes and devise a complete solution for the overall logistical flow. This is the approach of Scania-owned company LOTS. Having worked with the Swedish forestry industry, LOTS is now also expanding into Asia and Latin America and into more industries. Another example is Scania Site Optimisation, a framework of tools which takes a holistic view of mining transport operations to find and target bottlenecks in those flows using information relayed from communication units in each vehicle. Anticipating customers’ needs 
With the new truck generation Scania has changed the way we are selling our products; an even deeper understanding of our customers’ businesses helps us tailor solutions better than ever. Scania products are designed for different customer applications, with the total operating economy in mind. 
An example of this is Scania’s new XT range for the construction segment that was designed for the entire range of cab and engine specifications. The range also includes a new heavy tipper designed for construction and mining. With more robust components, the payload capacity is 40 tonnes, one-quarter more compared to the current range. Its operational uptime is five percent higher than before, with 5,000 more service-life hours, thus reducing operation costs over the product’s life cycle and increasing residual value for the owner. 
For transporters, being part of a larger process means it’s crucial to avoid disruptions, and our broad specifications are complemented by services to ensure the highest uptime, reliability and profitability. Using the data Scania collects from over 300,000 connected trucks, this palette of services includes targeted repair and maintenance contracts, finance and insurance, the Scania Fleet Management system (including Trailer Control) and application-based Driver Training and Coaching that can be adapted to focus on the specific challenges facing drivers in their industries. 
As well as allowing Scania to create ever-smarter services, connectivity will also enable the use of smart and safe autonomous or semi-autonomous technology in closed areas such as mines or container terminals. And with truck platooning, autonomous technology is even making its presence felt on public roads.