Alienware and Tobii Continue to Bring Eye Tracking to Gamers with the Launch of the 2018 Alienware 17 Gaming Laptop Mon, Apr 09, 2018 08:00 CET 
At the game show PAX East, Alienware announced their updated 17-inch gaming laptop with cutting edge hardware and software. The 2018 Alienware 17 will retain industry-leading features, including integrated Tobii eye tracking technology, while refreshing other components to increase system performance and improve user experience. 
“Alienware is known for innovation and for adding the most advanced technologies and capabilities to its gaming notebook and desktop products,” said Oscar Werner, President of Tobii Tech. “Today we are thrilled to confirm that Alienware remains committed to providing its customers with the latest technology-- including Tobii eye tracking hardware and software.” 
Tobii and Alienware lead the way introducing eye tracking for the award-winning Alienware 17 gaming laptop in late 2016. Today, over 100 gaming titles include eye-tracking support, including many top-tier titles like Ubisoft’s latest smash hit Far Cry 5. Recently, the companies have collaborated closely to bring the benefits of eye tracking to a wide range of gamers, pro teams, and esports audiences. 
In January 2018, the finals of the Eleague Major for CS:GO broke the record for the most concurrent viewers of a single Twitch stream with over 1,130,000 viewers. During the stream, Eleague used technology from Alienware and Tobii to give viewers insight into the minds of professional gamers, showing incredible reaction times and top-level tactics. In March of 2018, leading professional esports organization Team Liquid shared that they have added Tobii eye tracking hardware and software to their new Alienware Training Facility, upping the standards for esports training. 
“At Alienware we are focused on bringing our customers the most sophisticated capabilities and technologies available to make sure they can compete at the highest levels,” said Christopher Sutphen, global marketing director at Alienware. “We are pleased to continue our work with Tobii, the world’s leader in eye tracking technology, to bring the powerful advantage of eye tracking to our community and to create a world-class gaming experience.” 
Read more about how professional teams, broadcasters, and leagues are using eye tracking here . 
Contact 
Ben Conrad, Vice President of Media and Influencers, Tobii Tech, Phone +1 (650) 224-6261, email: ben.conrad@tobii.com 
About Tobii 
Tobii is the global leader in eye tracking. Our vision is a world where all technology works in harmony with natural human behavior. Tobii operates through three business units: Tobii Dynavox makes specially designed computers that are controlled by eye movement or touch screens for use by people with special needs due to spinal cord injuries, CP, ALS or other medical conditions. Tobii Pro develops and sells eye-tracking equipment and services used today by more than 3,000 companies and 2,000 research institutions, including all of the world’s 50 highest ranked universities. Tobii Tech further develops Tobii’s technology for new volume markets, such as computer games, personal computers, virtual reality and smartphones. Tobii is headquartered in Sweden and is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm (TOBII). The group has over 900 employees. For more information, please visit www.tobii.com . 
Tags: eye tracking , Tobii , Oscar Werner , alienware , Alienware 17 About Us 
Tobii Technology is the global market leader in eye tracking and eye control. This technology makes it possible for computers to know exactly where users are looking. Our products are widely used within scientific research and in commercial market research and usability studies, as well as by disabled people as a means to communicate. Today Tobii contributes with a wide range of Augmentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) products. Tobii’s mission is to bring eye tracking into broader use and the company offers market leading eye tracking technology to industrial partners within areas such as gaming, diagnostics, car safety and computer control. Founded in 2001, Tobii has continuously shown very rapid year-to-year revenue growth, and have received numerous awards and recognitions for its accomplishments. The company is based in Stockholm, Sweden, with offices in the US, Germany, Norway, Japan and China. Our products are sold directly to customers and through resellers and partners worldwide. Contacts