Jörgen Lantto proposed to become new chairman of myFC Mon, Apr 09, 2018 07:58 CET 
Jörgen Lantto is proposed to be elected new chairman of myFC at the Extraordinary General Meeting on May 9, 2018 
Jörgen Lantto was previously the CEO of Fingerprint Cards AB, which under his management established a world-leading position in fingerprint sensors. Lantto, who has a long background from the telecom industry, primarily in Ericsson, was elected to the myFC board of directors in December 2016. He is a member of the board of Dirac Research AB, Zwipe AS (Norway) and Wirepas Oy (Finland), and an advisor to technology companies in the United States, UK and Sweden. 
Jörgen Lantto comments: "I am happy and honored that the nomination committee has proposed me as chairman of myFC. MyFC has developed a technology with the potential to fundamentally change how we charge our smartphones, as well as the potential to contribute to the electrification of our cars, using green energy. Together with my colleagues in the board, I will do my utmost to support the management in their work to succeed in these industry segments. I also want to thank Carl Palmstierna for his leadership as chairman of the board for more than 10 years. 
Carl Palmstierna , chairman of the nomination committee and chairman of the myFC board of directors since 2007, comments:"I’m very pleased that Jörgen Lantto is willing to increase his commitment to myFC, and I gladly pass the baton to him. It is a natural step in the development of myFC that the position as chair is held by someone with Jörgen Lantto's extensive industry background.” 
Carl Palmstierna has announced that he wishes to leave the board in conjunction with the shift of chairman. The board of directors will then, until the annual general meeting, consist of Jörgen Lantto (chairman), Lars Gullikson and Susanne Holmström. 
For further information, please contact: myFC Press Office Phone: +46 (0) 738 09 33 83 
About myFC 
MyFC, a Swedish innovation company and market leader in micro fuel cells, develops green energy solutions. Its JAQ Hybrid platform, which co-locates fuel cell and battery to charge smartphones and tablets, was launched in 2017. JAQ Hybrid is the company's third hydrogen-powered product following JAQ and PowerTrekk. It runs on the company's patented fuel consisting of salt, water and reactants. MyFC was founded in 2005 and is part of the group myFC Holding AB. MyFC Holding was listed on NASDAQ | First North in May 2014. Its head office is located in Stockholm and the company's Certified Advisor is Avanza Bank. For more information, visit www.myfcpower.com 
Tags: green energy , myfc , fuel cell technology , JAQ Hybrid About Us 
MyFC, a Swedish innovation company and market leader in micro fuel cells, develops green energy solutions. Its JAQ Hybrid platform, which co-locates fuel cell and battery to charge smartphones and tablets, was launched in 2017. JAQ Hybrid is the company's third hydrogen-powered product following JAQ and PowerTrekk. It runs on the company's patented fuel consisting of salt, water and reactants. MyFC was founded in 2005 and is part of the group myFC Holding AB. MyFC Holding was listed on NASDAQ | First North in May 2014. Its head office is located in Stockholm and the company's Certified Advisor is Avanza Bank. For more information, visit www.myfcpower.com Contacts