Full list of artists announced for Not a Single Story, Nirox Foundation and Wanås Konst Mon, Apr 09, 2018 09:18 CET 
Hosted from 12 May – 29 July at the NIROX Sculpture Park in the Cradle of Humankind,the exhibition is a collaboration between the NIROX Foundation, South Africa and Wanås Konst, The Wanås Foundation, Sweden. NOT A SINGLE STORY is the NIROX Winter sculpture exhibition 2018. The exhibition is an exchange between sculpture parks on two continents looking at individual artistic practices as overlapping dialogues and it brings forward contemporary concerns and working methods related to sculpture. NOT A SINGLE STORY is co-curated by Elisabeth Millqvist and Mattias Givell, the leadership duo behind Wanås Konst in Sweden. T he exhibition and its educational program are made possible with the support of The Swedish Postcode Foundation with additional support from The Swedish Embassy, Pretoria and Swedish Institute. 
Exhibition period: 12 May – 29 July 2018 Wanås Konst, The Wanås Foundation: Facebook | Instagram 
Nelisiwe Xaba, Bang Bang Wo , 2017. Photo Candida Merwe 
NOT A SINGLE STOR 
The NIROX Foundation and Wanås Konst are pleased to announce that the following artists will participate in NOT A SINGLE STORY : Jane Alexander (SA), Beth Armstrong (SA), Lena Cronqvist (SE), Latifa Echakhch (MA/FR), Frances Goodman (SA), Lungiswa Gqunta (SA), Lubaina Himid (ZAN/UK), Mwangi Hutter (KE/GER), Ayana V Jackson (US), Bronwyn Katz (SA), Gunilla Klingberg & Peter Geschwind (SE), Marcia Kure (NIG/US), Marianne Lindberg De Geer (SE), Esther Mahlangu (SA), Caroline Mårtensson (SE), Whitney McVeigh (UK), Nandipha Mntambo (Swaziland/SA), Sethembile Msezane (SA), Zanele Muholi (SA), Yoko Ono (Japan/US), Claudette Shreuders (SA), Mary Sibande (SA), Sophia van Wyk (SA), Nelisiwe Xaba (SA). 
The exhibition combines existing works with new productions that will occupy and transform the landscape. Titled NOT A SINGLE STORY, the exhibition is dominated by women artists in a response to a very singular art history. The artists represent a diversity of perspectives as they range from forerunners to emerging artists within contemporary art in South Africa, the African diaspora, Sweden and internationally. Notable is the participation of Yoko Ono , often seen as the grandmother of conceptual and performance art, who is presenting Wish Trees , an instruction-based work that she has realised in different parts of the world. This will be the first time that Yoko Ono exhibits in Africa and she has titled her iteration for NIROX Wish Trees for Hope. 
Now 82, Esther Mahlangu has become iconic. She is known for her colourful paintings that bridge contemporary disciplines such as pop art, abstraction and traditional Ndebele paintings. Following the customs passed down from generations of women in her family, her brightly-coloured murals have captured the attention of audiences around the globe. For NOT A SINGLE STORY Mahlangu will present a mural on an existing building, with her characteristic pattern of colour and geometric abstraction. 
The NIROX Foundation and Wanås Konst are proud to announce the participation of 2017 Turner Prize Winner, Lubaina Himid . For the first time. Himid will be exhibiting in Africa, the continent of her birth. She will show the work Vernet’s Studio , an installation featuring representations of artists such as Georgia O’Keefe, Frida Kahlo and Betye Saar. Himid sometimes describes her work as an invitation to a conversation “My way of getting conversation going, or getting people to take action, is by drawing them in and saying: ‘You bring your baggage, your opinion, your life and I’ll bring mine – and let’s try to talk about it” 
Leading South African artist Jane Alexander will exhibit Security . This is the second time Alexander will exhibit in the NIROX Sculpture Park after showing in 2010. Security continues Alexander’s language concerned with borders, security and displacement. We are also pleased to welcome back Beth Diane Armstrong , Frances Goodman , Whitney McVeigh , Nandipha Mntambo , Mary Sibande and Nelisiwe Xaba for NOT A SINGLE STORY. 
NOT A SINGLE STORY will showcase work from Africa and the diaspora with the inclusion of Kenyan-German artists Mwangi Hutter , American-South African artist Ayana V Jackson , U.S-based Nigerian artist Marcia Kure and Moroccan-French artist Latifa Echakhch . 
Emerging artists in the exhibition include Bronwyn Katz , Sophia van Wyk , Sethembile Msezane and Lungiswa Gqunta who close the loop on the generational dialogue between artists. They will exhibit for the first time at the NIROX Sculpture Park as well as the Sweden-based artists Lena Cronqvist , Gunilla Klingberg and Peter Geschwind , Marianne Lindberg De Geer , and Caroline Mårtensson who all are introduced to a South African audience for the first time. 
The exhibition and its comprehensive educational programming aimed at children and youth to expand understanding of life and art, is supported by The Swedish Postcode Lottery with additional support from The Swedish Embassy, Pretoria and Swedish Institute. The exhibition NOT A SINGLE STORY and the educational exchange with talks, tours and workshops is presented in the NIROX Winter Exhibition Program context. 

NOT A SINGLE STORY NIROX Winter sculpture exhibition 2018 
A collaboration between the NIROX Foundation, South Africa and Wanås Konst, Sweden Curators: Elisabeth Millqvist & Mattias Givell, Wanås Konst, Sweden Founder and Director NIROX Foundation: Benji Liebmann Co-curators: Jessica Doucha & Khumo Sebambo 
Opening: 2018 Winter Sculpture Fair , 12 – 13 May 2018. 
Special event: TBA 
Exhibition Period: May 12 – July 29, 2018 

For more information, please contact: 
South Africa, Africa. 
Khumo Sebambo, co-assistant curator http://www.niroxarts.com 
Europe and USA. Wanås Konst 
Sofia Bertilsson, communications Press room : http://news.cision.com/en/wanas-konst 

The NIROX Foundation Trust is a not-for-profit trust established to foster the arts. It occupies 15 hectares dedicated to a sculpture park, artist’s residency and concert venue, integrated into a 1 500-hectare private nature reserve, in the heart of the Cradle of Humankind World Heritage Site, on the western outskirts of Johannesburg. The residency hosts artists from across the world, to stimulate and exchange creative action and thought, in all arts disciplines. Since 2006 it has hosted more than 200 artists. 
The sculpture park produces two curated exhibitions a year, giving artists opportunity to produce and exhibit work that is otherwise difficult or impossible, due to the freedom of scale, content and production support provided by the facility. Entry to the sculpture park is free to the public. The open-air amphitheatre hosts up to 9 events a year, ranging through concerts for classical, opera, jazz, experimental and traditional music, poetry readings, dance and theatre. 
The NIROX Sculpture Park receives more than 20,000 public visitors each year. A focus is to educate and encourage children and youth, from primary schools to universities, to engage with the arts through studio visits with artists, walkabouts the park and creative activations. Read more at: http://niroxarts.com 

The Swedish Postcode Lottery’s belief is that the world is getting better with the help of strong non-profit organisations. The Postcode Foundation’s goal is to carry out that vision. 
The Postcode Foundation was established in 2003 by Novamedia Sweden AB, which operates and owns the Swedish Postcode Lottery concept. As a beneficiary to the Swedish Postcode Lottery, the Postcode Foundation annually receives part of the lottery’s surplus. This year, The Postcode Foundation was awarded 200 million Swedish crowns (SEK). 
Unlike other beneficiaries, The Postcode Foundation is not the final recipient of the funds, but rather has the task of delegating financial support to various types of projects related to; people’s living conditions, nature and environment, culture, and sports. Read More Here: https://postkodstiftelsen.se/en/ 

The Swedish Institute (SI) is a public agency that promotes interest and confidence in Sweden around the world. SI seeks to establish cooperation and lasting relations with other countries through strategic communication and exchange in the fields of culture, education, science and business. https://si.se/en/ 

For questions and further information, please contact: Sofia Bertilsson, 46 (0)733 86 68 20, Web: www.wanaskonst.se Newsroom: http://news.cision.com/wanas-konst (download high resolution images) 
Wanås Konst – Center for Art and Education, presents and communicates contemporary art that challenges and redefines society, working outside in the landscape around Wanås in Skåne, southern Sweden. The permanent collection in the sculpture park is complemented with a program of temporary exhibitions, both outdoors and in the Art Gallery, and events such as guided tours, artists’ talks, performances and workshops engaging a wide audience. Wanås Konst produces site-specific international art and learning in an innovative and accessible way. 
The collection in the sculpture park has 70 permanent works, created specifically for The Wanås Foundation – Wanås Konst by artists such as Nathalie Djurberg & Hans Berg, Ann Hamilton, Jenny Holzer, Yoko Ono and Robert Wilson et al. The sculpture park has approximately 75 000 visitors per year and 8000 children take part in educational activities. 
Wanås Konst is run by The Wanås Foundation, a non-profit foundation created in 1994, in Östra Göinge municipality, in the South of Sweden, 1.5 h from Copenhagen, Denmark. Founding Director Marika Wachtmeister initiated the art projects at Wanås in 1987. Since 2011 the foundation is led by Elisabeth Millqvist and Mattias Givell. Wanås Konst is part self-financed, part supported by state, regional and municipal funding, as well as by private foundations and sponsors. 
Wanås is a place in the world where art, nature and history meet. Wanås consist of a medieval castle, an organic farm, a scenic sculpture park and art center in southern Sweden as well as the newly opened Wanås Restaurant Hotel. Wanås Konst is part of European Land + Art Network (ELAN) and Wanås is a Long Run Destination – a leader in sustainable development within the tourism industry, community development and cultural management. 
Tags: PostkodLotteriet , Knislinge , Yoko ono , Lena Cronqvist , Östra Göinge , Wanås Konst , Marianne Lindberg De Geer , the wanås foundation , skulpturpark , Sculpture Park , Gunilla Klingberg , Nirox Foundation , Caroline Mårtensson , Peter Geschwind , Nelisiwe Xaba , Not a Single Story , Claudette Schreuders , niroxarts , post code lottery , stiftlesen wanås uttsällningar , beth armstrong , frances goodman , Lungiswa Gqunta , esther mahlangu , Sethembile Msezane , Zanele Muholi , Sophia van Wyk , Latifa Echakhch , Lubaina Himid , Ayana V Jackson , Whitney McVeigh , caroline martensson , The Postcode Foundation , lena conronqvist About Us 
Wanås Konst – Center for Art & Learning, presents and communicates contemporary art that challenges and redefines society, working outside in the landscape around Wanås in Skåne, southern Sweden. The permanent collection in the sculpture park is complemented with a program of temporary exhibitions, both outdoors and in the Art Gallery, and events such as guided tours, artists’ talks, performances and workshops engaging a wide audience. Wanås Konst produces site-specific international art and learning in an innovative and accessible way. The collection in the sculpture park has 70 permanent works, created specifically for The Wanås Foundation – Wanås Konst by artists such as Nathalie Djurberg & Hans Berg, Ann Hamilton, Jenny Holzer, Yoko Ono and Robert Wilson et al. The sculpture park has approximatly 75 000 visitors per year and 8000 children take part in educational activities. Wanås Konst is run by The Wanås Foundation, a non-profit foundation created in 1994, in Östra Göinge municipality, in the South of Sweden, 1.5 h from Copenhagen, Denmark. Founding Director Marika Wachtmeister initiated the art projects at Wanås in 1987. Since 2011 the foundation is led by Elisabeth Millqvist and Mattias Givell. Wanås Konst is part self-financed, part supported by state, regional and municipal funding, as well as by private foundations and sponsors. Wanås is a place in the world where art, nature and history meet. Wanås consist of a medieval castle, an organic farm, a scenic sculpture park and an art gallery in southern Sweden as well as the newly opened Wanås Restaurant Hotel. Wanås Konst is part of European Land + Art Network (ELAN) and Wanås is a Long Run Destination – a leader in sustainable development within the tourism industry, community development and cultural management. Read more at www.wanaskonst.se Contacts