Björn-Erik Karlsson nominated to lead cybersecurity company Nixu’s growth in Sweden Mon, Apr 09, 2018 09:00 CET 
Nixu CorporationPress release, April 9, 2018 at 10.00 AM EET Björn-Erik Karlsson nominated to lead cybersecurity company Nixu’s growth in Sweden 
European cybersecurity company Nixu has increased significantly its foothold in Sweden. It has gained the market position as one of the largest cybersecurity companies in Sweden since 2016 as the result of Nixu joining forces with three Swedish cybersecurity companies: Europoint Networking AB, Safeside Solutions AB and Bitsec AB. 
In order to further support Nixu’s future growth in the Swedish cybersecurity market and to redeem the position as the go-to partner of holistic cybersecurity services for the Swedish enterprises, Björn-Erik Karlsson has been appointed to lead the Swedish team as Head of Sweden Market. 
Björn-Erik is a senior leader with substantial expertise in the IT industry and leading large professional organizations. He has extensive experience in leading growth companies successfully while optimizing efficiency and securing strong deliveries during times of change and through challenging initiatives such as mergers and acquisitions. Before joining Nixu, Björn-Erik has recently worked at companies like Atea and Bisnode. 
“I am very happy to have Björn-Erik onboard. Björn-Erik has substantial expertise from different leadership positions and in leading integrations. Most importantly, he is a people leader, who we believe will further develop Nixu as the best workplace for cybersecurity professionals in Sweden,” says Petri Kairinen, Nixu CEO. 
“Nixu ranks among the major players in cybersecurity services in Northern Europe with its team of over 300 top-notch cybersecurity experts. I’m excited to be part of Nixu and look forward to working with the Swedish team in order to serve our clients with holistic cybersecurity services which allow them to find the right level of security despite fast moving digitalization and ever-increasing cyber threats,” comments Björn-Erik Karlsson, Head of Sweden Market. 
Nixu Corporation 
CEO Petri Kairinen, Nixu CorporationTelephone: +358 40 832 1832, e-mail: petri.kairinen@nixu.com 
Distribution: www.nixu.com 
Nixu in brief: Nixu is a cybersecurity services company on a mission to keep the digital society running. Our passion is to help organizations embrace digitalization securely. Partnering with our clients we provide practical solutions for ensuring business continuity, an easy access to digital services and data protection. We aim to provide the best workplace to our team of over 300 cybersecurity professionals with a hands-on attitude. With Nordic roots, but based in four continents, we serve enterprise clients worldwide. Nixu Corporation is listed on the Nasdaq First North stock market. 
www.nixu.com About Us 
Nixu Corporation is a cybersecurity company. We work to improve our clients’ cybersecurity in solution areas of Corporate IT, Digital Business and Industrial Internet. Our clients trust Nixu in projects where developing, implementing or assessing of information security is a must. We ensur​e the confidentiality of our clients' data, business continuity and ease-of-access to digital services through planning and mitigation of cybersecurity risks. Contacts