Semcon’s product design wins two Red Dot Awards Mon, Apr 09, 2018 11:11 CET 
A 3D printer for human tissue from CELLINK and a user-friendly rack system for bikes from Atran Velo. These are the two winning entries for the Red Dot Award: Product Design 2018 where Semcon have been involved. The designs were developed at Semcon’s office in Gothenburg in close partnership with CELLINK and Atran Velo. 
Entries from 59 countries took part this year in the Red Dot Awards, a prestigious annual international design competition. The winners in each category are chosen by leading product design experts. 
“Red Dot is a quality hallmark denoting good design, and it is a prestigious award to win. In both award-winning projects, customers with lofty ambitions came to Semcon and relied on our design expertise. We then worked together on the entire product chain, from the user perspective to design and construction. This is the way to make a truly outstanding product,” says Martin Andersson, Business Manager Design at Semcon. 
One of the award-winning projects is a 3D printer that uses a unique bioink to print human tissue. The successful company behind this innovation is CELLINK , the first company in the world to manufacture bioink. This printer is used in life science research to allow medical tests to be carried out on human tissue instead of animals or humans. 
The other winning entry is a rack system from Atran Velo . Many systems for bags and baskets on bikes are not particularly flexible or user-friendly. Semcon and Atran Velo have worked together to develop a rack system which allows baskets and bags to be attached in various configurations at both the front and rear – with a simple click. 
Semcon has a design division employing around 100 employees at four Nordic offices. The company works with three design approaches: UX design, Product design and Technical design. Each one with a complete set of specialists in its field. 
For more information, please contact: 
Per Nilsson, head of communications and marketing, SemconTel.: +46 (0)739 737 200 Email: 
Semcon is an international technology company that develops products based on human needs and behaviours. We strengthen our customers’ competitiveness by always starting from the end user, because the person who knows most about the user’s needs creates the best products and the clearest benefits to humans. Semcon collaborates mainly with companies in the automotive, industry, energy and life science sectors. With more than 2,000 specialised employees, Semcon has the ability to take care of the entire product development cycle, from strategy and technology development to design and product information. Semcon was founded in Sweden in 1980 and has offices in over 30 locations in eight different countries. In 2017, the Group reported annual sales of SEK 1.8 billion. Read more on www.semcon.com 
Tags: design , Semcon , Red Dot Award , product development About Us 
Semcon is an international technology company that develops products based on human needs and behaviours. We strengthen our customers’ competitiveness by always starting from the end user, because the person who knows most about the user’s needs creates the best products and the clearest benefits to humans. Semcon collaborates mainly with companies in the automotive, industry, energy and life science sectors. With more than 2000 specialised employees, Semcon has the ability to take care of the entire product development cycle, from strategy and technology development to design and product information. Semcon was founded in Sweden in 1980 and has offices in over 30 locations in eight different countries. In 2016, the Group reported annual sales of SEK 1.8 billion. Read more on semcon.com Contacts