About Scania | Our approach to sustainable transport | Sustainable transport 
Nowhere is the journey towards sustainable transport systems more rapid than in cities. The social and economic impact of fast urbanisation puts a huge strain on transportation, making new ideas and technologies imperative for better living. Scania works as a partner with many cities, providing public transport and urban solutions that are viable, flexible and cost-effective. 
The intense effects that poorly planned urban transportation have — air and noise pollution, wasted energy resources, insufficient road safety and traffic congestion — harm their inhabitants’ health and constrain our economies. It is not just expanding city centres that is the problem but also a rapid suburbanisation, meaning longer commuter trips. Political momentum 
In the effort to make the world’s transport systems fit for the future, cities are pioneers. They are fora for new public policy, designed to improve people’s quality of life. They are living laboratories for introducing new types of cleaner, smarter and safer transport. 
Multiple examples of city leadership and public policy approach to sustainability appear from cities such as Paris, Hamburg and Madrid, which are all planning restrictions on diesel vehicles. Municipal authorities are also responsive and generally have more room to manoeuvre than national governments because regulations are easier to enact on a limited, local scale. Sustainable solutions for cities 
Having long recognised the importance of public transport, Scania has been investing heavily in what is now the broadest range of buses and coaches that run on alternative fuels for city and suburban applications, with the options of HVO, biodiesel-FAME, natural gas, biogas, ethanol, and hybrid drivetrains. 
We work in partnership with city planners to provide full-scale Bus Rapid Transit systems that can transport 50,000 passengers per hour. It means a lot of private transport can be substituted by bus systems with high capacity and efficiency, a cost efficient way to significantly reduce pollution, CO 2 emissions and traffic gridlock. 
Goods traffic and waste management are other areas where Scania contributes with transport solutions. Scania’s hybrid electric distribution trucks reduce carbon emissions, fuel consumption and noise, making them suitable for night-time and early morning deliveries, when there is less traffic and fewer people around. Scania’s new gas engine is also well suited for use in areas sensitive to noise and emissions such as cities and suburbs. 
Both city bus operators and retail distributors can also opt for Scania Fleet Care services, including Uptime Guarantee, which means Scania will guarantee that the vehicles keep running. 
Engines in excavators, wheel loaders, ships for passenger or freight are often overlooked when tackling local pollution problems. Replacing old non-road machinery and engines can be very efficient for cutting emissions and improve air quality and public health in urban areas. 
We are dedicated to playing a leading role in providing urban transport solutions that are accessible, efficient and attractive — the kind of sustainable solutions we have available now. Politicians, city planners, customers, customers’ customers and suppliers need to work together and Scania stands ready to play its part.