Phone: 49 (0) 21 66 - 6 18 66 - 47Fax: 49 (0) 21 66 - 6 18 66 - 20Email: 
. 
astragon Entertainment GmbH 
astragon Entertainment (founded in 2000) ranks among the leading independent games publishers in Germany. Our versatile product portfolio focuses on high-quality technical simulation games such as Construction Simulator, Farming Simulator or Bus Simulator, but also covers complex economic simulations and strategy games. The distribution of the Big Fish franchise (Mystery Case Files, Dark Parables, Grim Tales) completes our exciting product range. Games by astragon are available world-wide on many different platforms such as consoles, smartphones, tablets and PC. Please visit us for more information at http://www.astragon.de/en/ . 
. 
stillalive studios 
stillalive studios is an award-winning game development team whose goal is to create dynamic and unique games. The company was incorporated in early 2013 in Innsbruck (Austria) and today counts about 20 members. We are an experienced and enthusiastic team of game developers embracing both gameplay and technological challenges, working with both Unity and Unreal. For more information visit http://stillalive-studios.com/ . 
. Mercedes-Benz , Setra , iveco , Simulation , games , MAN , stillalive studios , astragon , vehicle simulation game , Bus Simulator 18 About Us 
The astragon Entertainment GmbH and the astragon Sales & Services GmbH have emerged as the core of the newly created astragon group formerly consisting of the two games publishers astragon Software GmbH (founded in 2000) and rondomedia Marketing & Vertriebs GmbH (founded in 1998) in July 2015. Today, the astragon group is the second largest producer and marketer of computer games in Germany (number of units CD-ROM/DVD as per GfK Media Control, complete annual evaluation 2015). The main focus of the group’s product range lies with casual games and technical simulation games for PC. Adventure games and economy simulations complement astragon’s diverse portfolio. The popular game series “Big Fish Games“, “play+smile“ and “Best of Simulations“ form three strong umbrella brands by astragon in retail market. Additionally to the distribution to retail partners in the German language area by the astragon Sales & Services GmbH, products are also marketed internationally under license and via download by the astragon Entertainment GmbH. Games for consoles, mobile devices as well as smartphones and tablets complete astragons product range. For more information, please visit http://www.astragon.de/en/ . Contacts