Scania’s customers do not have to wait to adapt their businesses to a sustainable transport system — the solutions are already here. Scania offers a broad range of platforms and services now, to support our customers businesses today and tomorrow. A three-pillar approach 
Our approach to sustainable transport rests on three pillars that, individually or combined, accelerate the shift – Energy efficiency , Alternative fuels and electrification , and Smart and safe transport . To succeed in minimising the adverse effects of today’s transport systems (greenhouse gases, local emissions, congestion and road accidents) parallel efforts across all three pillars are needed. The whole value chain needs to be made more efficient and measures need to be taken in all areas, including renewable energy, making vehicles more efficient, and making transport movements more efficient. At Scania, we apply the three pillars in different ways, depending on our customers’ individual needs rather than pushing a particular technical solution. The maturity of logistics and infrastructure across the world also plays a key role. For example in some cities there is good access to biogas from waste for use in buses, while another one might produce electricity from its biogas – making electric vehicles a possible solution. 
No matter where our customers are on the journey to sustainable transport, regardless of which type of driving is involved or what the local conditions are, there is an alternative solution from Scania to order, here and now. We know that sustainability has to go hand-in-hand with profitability and the good news is that additional cost from some measures taken can be offset by others that reduce waste and increase efficiency. Energy efficiency 
Scania was the first manufacturer to deliver Euro 6 engines – the highest current emissions class – in Europe. This involved powertrains that make a major reduction in harmful emissions. 
Scania’s new product range also makes a significant contribution to lowering CO 2 emissions. The new truck generation has our most energy-efficient engine range to date. Customers’ total operating economy is improved by a fuel consumption that is on average 5 percent lower than before, due to improved powertrains and better aerodynamics. Some 13,000 trucks of Scania’s new truck generation were sold in 2017. This equals savings in global CO 2 emissions of well above 30,000 tonnes. Scania’s new truck range is well prepared for a fossil-free future with a platform that will take our customers into the future without significant adaptation needed. 
For the new truck range Scania also developed application-focused products that are more efficient and thus perform better with lower environmental impact. 
A significant component of making more efficient use of energy not only involves improving vehicles and adding features to reduce fuel consumption. Providing driver support through driver training and regular follow-up, as featured in our offering Ecolution by Scania, results in an average of 10 percent fuel consumption and CO 2 reduction. Alternative fuels and electrification 
Cities worldwide are taking initiatives to combat climate change, turning to legislation to address issues of poor air quality, noise pollution and traffic jams. Smart, safe and clean transport is becoming crucial to a better quality of life. For Scania, alternative fuels means business as usual. Scania has pioneered the use of alternative fuels for more than 30 years, with the broadest range of alternative fuel-enabled vehicles on the market, ranging from ethanol trucks and buses to vehicles using liquefied or compressed biogas. All our Euro 5 and 6 engines can run on HVO, meaning that all Scania trucks and buses in Europe from 2010 and onwards can run on renewable fuel. In addition, nearly all our vehicles can run on biodiesel-FAME. In 2017 Scania launched its new 13-litre gas engine for the new truck generation, a long-haulage high horsepower solution that is also well suited for urban environments, as gas engines are generally quieter than diesel equivalents. 
Electrification is a fast-developing technology and Scania has hybrid buses and trucks, as well as battery-powered electric buses. Scania is developing several applications for electrified vehicles, including continuous charging along electric roads, fuel cell trucks and wirelessly charged buses. Smart and safe transport 
Digitalisation opens the way to sustainable and safe transport of both goods and people, for example in the coordination and control of transport movements. Concrete examples, such as connected and autonomous vehicles, are and will be crucial for increasing efficiency in transport and value chains. Using real-time data from over 300,000 connected vehicles, Scania has developed services to lower fuel consumption and maximise vehicle uptime such as Scania Maintenance with Flexible Plans – contracts customised for each truck based on real-time user data. The result is fewer and usually shorter stops, less waste from unnecessary oil changes and up to two days’ fewer standstill per vehicle annually. More uptime also boosts profitability. Bringing customers with us on our journey 
For our customers today, environmental and social impacts are prompting their customers and consumers to demand more responsible business, adding to the constant pressures of just-in-time deliveries and tight profit margins. By continuing to offer relevant sustainable transport solutions, Scania can provide our customers with the right tools to meet their customers’ needs.