Paroc Group capacity expansion investment in Poland proceeds according to plan Tue, Apr 10, 2018 11:00 CET 
March 2018 
Paroc Group has recently launched a capacity expansion programme in its Trzemeszno plant in Poland to support its growth strategy for Central and West Europe. In addition to the positive market situation, two key macro drivers ‒ energy efficiency and fire safety – are expected to increase the demand for insulation materials. Paroc believes that the demand growth will be especially in favour of stone wool insulation materials due to its superior fire resistance properties. 
The construction work of a new state-of-the-art stone wool production line is ongoing in the existing plant in Trzemeszno, Poland. The plant offers a good platform thanks to the already existing infrastructure, optimal geographic location and experienced workforce. The utilization of the latest Paroc technology will ensure high capacity, efficiency, and excellent product quality. 
"This is an important step for Paroc to continue the profitable growth. Our customers in Central and West Europe will benefit from the investment capacity.and the close geographical location", says Anders Dahlblom, Managing Director of Paroc. 
The investment is expected to be completed in 2019. The total value of the investment amounts to approximately 60 million euro. The total annual production volume is expected to increase by 60 ‒ 70 thousand tons across the building and technical insulation. 
Additional information Paroc Group Marketing Communications Directortel. +358 50 325 2376 
About Paroc Paroc is one of Europe’s leading manufacturers of energy-efficient and fire-proof insulation solutions. Throughout our 80-year history, we have brought innovation to the residential and industrial building industry and have earned a reputation for high product performance, technical expertise and sustainability. Our aim is to remain an innovative and trusted partner for a sustainable built environment. 
Our products for building, technical, marine and offshore insulation, as well as acoustic products, are designed to meet the demanding needs of new construction and renovation alike. We manufacture our products in Finland, Sweden, Lithuania, Poland and Russia, and deliver them to customers in our familiar red-and-white-striped packages. 
In 2017, our net sales amounted to MEUR 411 and the company employed around 1840 people. Paroc is a part of Owens Corning. 
Tags: development , investment , Poland , production , Paroc , stone wool , insulations , technical insulations , Paroc Group , Building insulations , Trzemeszno , insulation market About Us 
Paroc is one of Europe’s leading manufacturers of energy-efficient and fire-proof insulation solutions. Throughout our 80-year history, we have brought innovation to the residential and industrial building industry and have earned a reputation for high product performance, technical expertise and sustainability. Our aim is to remain an innovative and trusted partner for a sustainable built environment. Our products for building, technical, marine and offshore insulation, as well as acoustic products, are designed to meet the demanding needs of new construction and renovation alike. We manufacture our products in Finland, Sweden, Lithuania, Poland and Russia, and deliver them to customers in our familiar red-and-white-striped packages. In 2017, our net sales amounted to MEUR 411 and the company employed around 1840 people. Paroc is a part of Owens Corning. Contacts 
Area Marketing Manager Central & West Europe Heidenkampsweg 51 20097 Hamburg Germany