Skicka och dela! Head of Marketing and Communications 
We’re looking for a Head of Marketing and Communications to lead our talented marketing team and work closely with sales to drive growth and build the Visiba Care brand globally. You will play an important part in making Visiba Care a global success. 
You’ll be part of the Visiba Care management team and will report to the CEO. 
Responsibilities Build and execute the marketing and communication vision and strategy Develop marketing plans for all our prioritised markets. Develop an industry leading content offer to establish our thought leader position in several markets. Work closely with our sales and customer success teams to drive growth by adding value in all parts of the buyer journey Work closely to support our HR/People function in building our employer brand. Act as the company spokesperson when needed for certain media and external events. Building our global event strategy including conferences, industry events, and internal events together with other parts of the management team. Manage all corporate communications including executive communications, messaging development, PR Lead our marketing team by coaching and developing existing members and closing talent gaps where needed through recruiting new team members 
Requirements 5+ years of experience with demonstrated success in a leading marketing and/or communications position. Entrepreneurial drive; you will manage a marketing team, but you won’t be successful if you’re not willing to dive in and do a lot of things yourself. You have a strong background in digital and are very familiar with concepts like content marketing and inbound marketing. Strong communication skills, both verbal and written. 
Who are we? 
Visiba Care is a mission driven company, dedicated to improve healthcare and make a massive impact on global health. We were founded in 2014 for the purpose of making healthcare more accessible, effective and sustainable. Our aim is that Visiba Care should be the first choice for healthcare providers who want to digitise their workflows and patient meetings. Our customers are currently located both in the private and public sectors, primarily in Sweden, but also in other Nordic countries and the UK. Skicka och dela! Fakta om företaget 
Visiba Care enables healthcare providers to set up their own branded digital practice. It is a safe and scalable platform that improves accessibility and increase efficiency. Features like online booking, video consultations, smart forms and chat facilitates everyday life for both healthcare professionals and patients. 
Visiba Care was founded in 2014 on the vision of a healthcare characterised by accessibility, simplicity and sustainability. Today we are Sweden’s leading platform for digital healthcare consultations. Fler jobb vi tror passar dig 