48 lediga jobb på företaget Senior Research Scientist Genome Editing 
The department of Translational Genomics at AstraZeneca is looking for a consultant who will provide expert support for Next Generation Sequencing and Transcriptome analysis Senior Research Scientist Genome Editing AstraZeneca is a major international healthcare business engaged in the research, development, manufacture and marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals and the supply of healthcare services. AstraZeneca is proud to offer a unique workplace culture that inspires innovation and collaboration. Co-workers are empowered to express diverse perspectives - and are made to feel valued, energized and rewarded for their ideas and creativity The Arena The precise genome editing group is developing new tools and technologies to facilitate target validation, speedy disease modeling and to evaluate the potential applications and safety of therapeutic genome editing. They are part of the Translational Genomics department where they develop advanced cellular and animal models and they also provide expert support for Next Generation Sequencing and Transcriptome analysis. The candidate will be embedded in an international group working on cutting edge technologies with world leading external collaborators. Tasks and responsibilities/The role: To design and build genome editing-based strategies and tools required to generate in vivo (mouse) and in vitro reagents to create disease models To develop delivery tools to improve the efficiency of in vivo genome editing To perform confirmation of genetic manipulation and functional validation of engineered animals To perform target validation studies in early projects Minimum requirements: Molecular biology expertise on vector design and genetic manipulation of cell lines and/or mouse embryonic stem cells, primary and iPSC cells Functional characterization of gene modified cell lines In silico construct design and analysis of genetic perturbation after genome editing Preferred experience and key factors: Generation and use of viral vectors (lentivirus, AAV, Adenovirus) and non-viral delivery tools for in vitro and in vivo delivery Previous practical expertise with genome editing tools including Cas9/CRISPR, ZFNs and TALENs Hands on experience with Next Generation Sequencing library preparation and results analysis Business: Dfind Science & Engineering City: Gothenburg Deadline for applications: 2018-04-16. Selection is on-going and interviews will be held continuously which means the positions can be filled before deadline. Please make sure to send in your application at your earliest convenience! For more information contact: Galia Nyström [email protected] orAlma Zanqrelle [email protected] .Please keep in mind, e-mail applications will not be considered. Register your profile at Dfind Science & Engineering's webpage and send in your application there. Organization/Business description: Dfind Science & Engineering is a recruitment and consulting company within science and engineering. All our consultant managers and recruitment consultants have an education and work experience within the respective field. In combination with extensive knowledge of staff issues and solid experience of recruitment, this means that we understand our clients' need for both flexibility and the right skills.Dfind Science & Engineering is since 2016 part of Randstad Group. With over 600 000 employees in over 40 countries Randstad is the world’s second largest company within recruiting and staffing. 