https://troymedia.com/2018/03/26/quick-easy-ways-improve-value-of-your-home/ 236 
When it comes to the value of one’s home, there are many different ways in which it’s perceived. For some, the value is as simple as its price on the current market. For others, the value of the home depends on its state, how they see it, and how comfortable they are living in it. With so many different ways of perceiving value, it can be a little overwhelming to attempt to increase its overall value. Fortunately, the market price and its quality tend to go hand in hand. Here are some easy tips to increase the value of your home in more ways than one. 
Focusing on the easy to overlook aspects 
You might think that when it comes to increasing the value of your home, you need to go big. However, that isn’t necessarily the case. There are certain parts of a home that unfortunately don’t get as much attention as they deserve – such as the front doors, or even doors in general. This is even more surprising because they’re an integral part of building a first impression. If you want a good first impression, there’s nothing like having a sturdy composite front door to invite your guests in. It’s not only cost-efficient, but it also tends to be very flexible in design. 
Another aspect that’s often overlooked is the greener side of your home. Using indoor plants is not only a great way of making anyone living in your home feel great, but it’s also an excellent way of increasing its resale value as well. It’s an easy fix that is relatively cheap compared to what it brings to the table. 
Ensure that your home is properly maintained 
While this won’t be a problem for most homeowners, sometimes we often let life get the best of us. This can lead to homeowners ignoring certain aspects of their home that are in need of maintenance because it isn’t outright broken. While this is easy to ignore for a while, eventually things will start to break down which could end up costing you far more in the long run. Don’t be tempted to ignore these so-called little issues, and make sure that your home is properly maintained. This is especially important for areas such as the bathroom, as well as the central heating. Being pre-emptive will not only help increase your home’s value, but it will also save you a lot of money. 
To conclude, while it might be overwhelming to try to increase your home’s value, it’s possible. You just need to be willing to put in the effort to get the job done. Your wallet doesn’t have to take any heavy hits either. Simply work on maintaining your home, while focusing on improving overlooked aspects.   
Quick and Easy Ways to Improve the Value of Your Home added by Exclusive on March 26, 2018