Starbreeze Publishing to release Somnium Games title “Inked” April 26th Tue, Apr 10, 2018 18:00 CET 
Starbreeze Publishing, an independent creator, publisher and distributor of high quality entertainment products today announced they are releasing Somnium Games upcoming title Inked under its Publishing label “IndieLabs” on Steam, April 26th. 
Developed by the Croatian studio Somnium Games, Inked is a puzzle-platformer where you play as the Nameless Hero, a Ronin character drawn by a comic book artist, Adam. Inked is a tale of love and vengeance and holds a unique visual art style as it’s illustrated on paper and viewed through the eyes of Adam. 
By using simple geometrical shapes, you’ll solve puzzles and venture through Adam’s world to find Nameless Hero’s love Aiko, embarking on a journey that’ll forever change both of them. 
Inked has been in development for over two years and was picked up by Starbreeze as it promised a unique visual art style, engaging puzzles and compelling story where you get to experience and battle deeper subjects of life. 
Read more on: www.inkedgame.com 
Inked will be released on Steam on April 26th, http://store.steampowered.com/690120 
### 
For more information, please contact: Maeva Sponbergs, EVP of Communication Tel: 46(0)8-209 208, email: 
About Starbreeze 
Starbreeze is an independent creator, publisher and distributor of high quality entertainment products. With studios in Stockholm, Paris, Los Angeles, Barcelona and Brussels, the company creates games and other virtual reality entertainment products, based on proprietary design and licensed content. Starbreeze most recent games include PAYDAY 2®, VR-shooter John Wick Chronicles, and upcoming survival co-op FPS OVERKILL’s The Walking Dead. Under its publishing initiative, Starbreeze has together with Canadian studio Behaviour Digital successfully launched horror thriller Dead by Daylight. 
Starbreeze has set out to develop truly immersive virtual reality experiences, by integrating software and hardware in its StarVR® head mounted display, which is produced together with Acer. 
For more information, please visit starbreeze.com , overkillsoftware.com 
About Somnium Games 
Somnium Games is a small indie game development team from Croatia. They are currently working on Inked, a puzzle platformer set on a drawing paper. 
Tags: Inkedgame About Us 
Starbreeze is an independent creator, publisher and distributor of high quality entertainment products. With studios in Stockholm, Paris, Los Angeles, Barcelona and Brussels, the company creates games and other virtual reality entertainment products, based on proprietary design and licensed content. Starbreeze most recent games include PAYDAY 2®, John Wick VR shooter and upcoming survival co-op FPS OVERKILL’s The Walking Dead. Under its publishing initiative, Starbreeze has together with Canadian studio Behaviour Digital successfully launched horror thriller Dead by Daylight. Starbreeze has set out to develop truly immersive virtual reality (VR) experiences by integrating software and hardware in its StarVR® head mounted display, produced together with Acer. Together with wholly owned subsidiary Enterspace, Starbreeze further solidifies its presence in location based entertainment. StarVR can additionally be found at IMAX VR Centres in Los Angeles and New York. Headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, Starbreeze shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm First North Premier under the tickers STAR A and STAR B with the ISIN-codes SE0007158928 (A share) and SE0005992831 (B share). Remium Nordic is the company's Certified Adviser. More information: starbreeze.com, starvr.com, overkillsoftware.com Contacts