Skicka och dela! Online Marketing Coordinator for Sweden 
Are you interested in being part of a young and dynamic company in the online gaming industry? Coolbet is now looking for a Online Marketing Coordinator for Sweden who will report directly to the Swedish Country Manager. We have a great atmosphere and highly skilled people whom you will love to work and have fun with. 
The role Responsible for creating, executing and optimizing various projects within Coolbet's different online marketing channels for Coolbet Sweden. Manage the communication with our external partners while ensuring maximum results from them. Coordinate our internal work with our Digital Media Manager re. banners and media planning (creation, performance and follow-up). 
Must Haves A relevant education within Marketing or similar. Fluent in Swedish and English. At least 1-2 years relevant work experience, preferably within the igaming sector, including display advertising and affiliate management. Good communication and teamwork skills. An analytical as well as creative mindset with an eye for details. 
Nice to Haves Experience with one or several of the following; conversion optimization, SEM, SEO, Social Media, and RTB. An interest in sport is a plus. 
What we offer To work together with an experienced and professional team. A fun environment and great colleagues. Competitive salary. 
Stockholm, Sweden or Tallinn, Estonia. Application We will continuously read applications and interview interesting candidates. If you are interested in this position, please apply by sending your resume and cover letter in English to [email protected] . 
Skriv ut Skicka och dela! Fakta om företaget Coolbet is owned by the Estonian company StayCool OÜ, with registration number 12814989. Coolbet holds an Estonian gaming license both for Estonian and non-Estonian customers. The company has got around 110 employees and strives to be fair, transparent and personal, providing customers with information other gaming companies do not provide. Coolbet's goal is to deliver the best gaming solutions possible by continuously focusing on product development and innovation, while creating a new industry standard for responsible gaming. Fler jobb vi tror passar dig 