Eltel Norway selects IFS Field Service Management and Accenture to improve the efficiency of 500+ service technicians Wed, Apr 11, 2018 09:00 CET 
Eltel Norway to strengthen market leadership and improve customer satisfaction with IFS Field Service Management 
IFS , the global enterprise applications company, announces that Eltel Norway has chosen IFS Field Service Management™ (IFS FSM) and Accenture to help strengthen its position as the leading provider of technical services for critical infrastructure networks for power and communications in the Nordics, Poland, and Germany. IFS FSM will be implemented as Eltel’s core technology platform. 
In 2017, Eltel Norway initiated a mobile workforce transformation program to strengthen its market leadership and optimize service operations. A key enabler was to identify a market-leading mobile workforce solution for Eltel’s service assurance operation in Norway. After careful consideration, Eltel chose IFS Field Service Management including functionality for planning & scheduling optimization and customer engagement. The global professional services company Accenture will provide program and change management, and other consulting services to assist Eltel. 
“This project was initiated to lift Eltel to the next level and secure our position as the number one service provider in Norway,” said Thor-Egel Bråthen, Managing Director of Eltel Norway. “IFS Field Service Management will give our technicians the tool they need to optimize the way we work, engage in continuous improvement, and facilitate interaction with all customers.” 
The Eltel Group has been using IFS solutions since 2000, when they opted to implement IFS Applications™. The implementation of IFS Field Service Management will empower the company to reduce time spent on production and resource management. The solution will be used by over 500 field technicians and 30 back-office staff. 
Glenn Arnesen, CEO of IFS in Scandinavia, added, “We are happy that Eltel has chosen to implement more of our technology into their business after almost two decades of working together. This is a testament to our strong position in the service industry and focus on developing a world-class field service management solution. Together with our long-term partner Accenture, we will deliver an efficient implementation project that minimizes the time to value of Eltel’s investment in field service management.” 
For more information about how IFS helps service-focused organizations, please visit: www.ifsworld.com/corp/solutions/service-management/field-service-management/ . 
Tom Smith , Marketing Director for IFS in Scandinavia. Telephone: 47 404 85 956, 
About Eltel 
Eltel is a leading Northern European provider of technical services for critical infrastructure networks – Infranets – in the segments of Power, Communication and Other, with operations throughout the Nordics, Poland and Germany. Eltel provides a broad and integrated range of services, spanning from maintenance and upgrade services to project deliveries. Eltel has a diverse contract portfolio and a growing customer base of large network owners. In 2017, Eltel’s net sales amounted to EUR 1.3 billion. The current number of employees is approximately 8,000. Eltel AB has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm since 2015. 
About IFS 
IFS™ develops and delivers enterprise software for customers around the world who manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations. The industry expertise of our people and solutions, together with commitment to our customers, has made us a recognized leader and the most recommended supplier in our sector. Our team of 3,500 employees supports more than ten thousand customers worldwide from a network of local offices and through our growing ecosystem of partners. For more information, visit: IFSworld.com 
Follow us on Twitter: @ifsworld 
Visit the IFS Blog on technology, innovation and creativity: http://blog.ifsworld.com/ About Us 
IFS™ develops and delivers enterprise software for customers around the world who manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations. The industry expertise of our people and solutions, together with commitment to our customers, has made us a recognized leader and the most recommended supplier in our sector. Our team of 3,500 employees supports more than ten thousand customers worldwide from a network of local offices and through our growing ecosystem of partners. For more information, visit: IFSworld.com Follow us on Twitter: @ifsworld Visit the IFS Blog on technology, innovation and creativity: http://blog.ifsworld.com/ Contacts