Six signs spring is on its way to Sweden Lee Roden There's nothing quite like the feeling of a balmy 13 degrees Celsius. Photo: Johan Nilsson/TT Lee Roden 11 April 2018 06:59 CEST+02:00 There's a hint of spring in the air in Sweden, and that's all it takes for everything to change. Here are six signs that the switch in season is well on its way. 
1. People are willing to freeze in order to dine outside 
Cafes and restaurants with al fresco seating are as anxious as anyone for winter to end. So giddy, in fact, that they often set up tables and chairs when the mercury shows a hint of creeping above freezing. 
More shocking perhaps is the fact that customers can’t pass up the chance to sit outside and sip a drink while shivering in an effort to will spring into existence. 
Stockholm following a hint of sun. Photo: Fredrik Sandberg/TT 
2. Påskmust and other Easter treats are virtually given away 
Love it or hate it, påskmust is a Swedish favourite at Easter time, with supermarkets stocking shelves to the brim full of bottles of what in reality is just the same carbonated beverage sold at Christmas as julmust, but with different packaging. 
One consequence of that is that once Easter is over, the same stores virtually give away the stuff, cutting prices to a crazy extent in an effort to get someone to take all the left over bottles of the sickly drink off their hands. The same goes for Easter eggs and paraphernalia, all longingly looking for a home. 
They can’t give this stuff away after Easter. Photo: Martina Holmberg / TT 
3. A never-ending flurry of spring news stories arrive 
Journalists in Sweden are no exception to the general desperation for the winter to end, and it's a certainty that a host of stories looking at spring from any possible angle will appear. See: "Long wait left for spring", "Spring weather headed to Sweden" and "Early signs of spring detected in Skåne". Admittedly, we're guilty as charged. Half a year of cold weather takes its toll. 
SOME SPRING HITS FROM THE LOCAL :