Pressmeddelande The World’s First Hug-Optimized Trench Coat – Introducing the Hug Trench A hug is a great way to express feelings, but it also comes with many scientifically proven health benefits. Fashion brand Monki, in collaboration with innovation agency ODD Company, have for the first time in history combined fashion with hug science. The Hug Trench is the world’s first hug-optimized trench coat, packed with huggable features. The goal is to “add a little extra love to our society”, according to the creators. People enjoy hugs, and it’s not surprising. There’s a lot of science backing up the fact that a hug can be a fantastic medicine. Apart from being a great way to express feelings, hugs also have positive effects on both your brain and your heart. Research have shown that a 20 second hug can boost oxytocin levels, commonly known as the love hormone. Simultaneously, hugs can reduce stress and even lower your blood pressure. The Research The international fashion brand Monki (a part of the H&M Group) wanted to inspire people to enjoy the?many benefits of a hug more often. Together with the innovation agency ODD Company, they created the Hug Trench, the world’s first hug-optimized trench coat. The fashionable trench coat is carefully designed to make a hug more pleasant both for the wearer and for the person on the other end of the hug. “We have a natural instinct to hug the people we love. We created the Hug Trench to make the hug more accessi- ble and, by doing so, add a little extra love to our society. There can never be too much love.”, says Eric Calderon, Head of Innovation at ODD Company. In the designing of the Hug Trench, the creators had to think about what makes the perfect hug. Several factors needed to be considered. Research and experiments was conducted to analyze the best hand position, optimal duration and the amount of pressure in the hug. Monki and ODD Company spent weeks of testing and hugging. “The research was a really important part of the project, and the most fun. All the hugging got us stoked up on oxytocin. I definitely recommend all scientists, and people in general, to hug more!”, says Anna Johnson, Communications Manager at ODD Company. The Hug Trench So, what features create the best hugging conditions? According to the creators the answer is Hug Pockets on the back, Inflatable Shoulder, Touch Sensors, LED-lights, Silky Collar, and even a 20 second timer. The Hug Trench has a lot of features and some involves technology, such as the smart Touch Sensors. When a hug takes place a 20 second countdown initiates, ensuring all potential health benefits of the hug. The Hug Trench is a love-spreader, but also a fashionable piece of clothing. Something that was extra important to Monki: “The Hug Trench was a collaboration all the way,” says Anna, “but the coat would never have looked this fabolous without Monki’s amazing designers.”. Although the Hug Trench is not available for purchase, it’s an important step in pushing the boundaries of what fashion design can be. One hug at a time.