https://troymedia.com/2018/04/11/virtual-reality-affecting-lives/ 236 
Virtual reality (VR) is for sure a thing of the now! A very real and engaging thing, to say the least. What this ‘thing’ has surprisingly brought about is a thought towards VR being full-well set to revolutionize a whole slew of elements and factors in our day-to-day lives – when in operation. 
From the onset, what we recognize to be true is the fact that with virtual reality, a level of interactivity and engagement within any industry that decides to take the leap towards a VR-inclusive system is for sure deciding to take the leap towards a wholly futuristic approach regardless. 
Now, I’m sure many would say: ‘surely the future is now’, to which I would indeed respond – true! Yet, when it comes to virtual reality, there is still quite a ways to go before it becomes a staple in our everyday lives. Until then, we can indeed speculate and hypothesize as to what virtual reality solutions may mean to various sectors if incorporated throughout. 
From gaming to cinematography to exploring various horizons to the different implications proposed for medical sectors to the different training and development spheres in which VR may make massive headway, all in all, when virtual reality is incorporated in current industries and sectors, one can surely expect a changeup of sorts. 
Virtual reality is no doubt a viable tool that may very well succeed in providing workable solutions and answers to many previously unanswerable questions. 
The very advent and creation of virtual reality can easily be determined as such: in a nutshell, VR proves that regardless of any given systems’ limitations presented, where one has the will to overcome and troubleshoot those limitations, there can easily be a solution found. 
With VR having initially just been a mere sci-fi pipe-dream and the fact that it is now going through various stages of testing, trials and experimentations only further expounds on the fact that VR can easily become the poster-child for ‘what dreams may come’. No matter how far in the distant future a certain system of solutions may appear at first, thanks to the many boundary-pushers and barrier-breakers, a thing, like virtual reality can indeed make the jump from ‘on paper theorizing’ to ‘out-of-this-world actualizing’. 
Taking an in-depth look at some of the sectors as mentioned previously, it can surely be determined that virtual reality will indeed affect lives going forward. 
1. Training and Development Sector: 
Many industries may benefit from the inclusion of virtual reality solutions and applications. For example, pilots in training will need to learn how to handle an aircraft while in mid-flight, preparing for any manner of situations that may arise. VR steps in, taking the form of flight simulators, where these novice pilots are given real-life situations to thrive in, via the virtual reality mode. A great benefit for these VR simulators is the fact that the costs incurred via VR systems usage are drastically reduced, allowing for the overall costs of becoming a pilot to be able to be more affordable overall. 
2. Medical / Health Sector: 
Similarly to the training and development sectors, by employing virtual reality options , medical practitioners that are still receiving training and education within this field are able to easily practice their diagnostic prowess, as well as surgical techniques without incurring any actual risks as would be a very real probability before the advent of VR solutions. Gaming 
Being the most obvious sector that would incorporate virtual reality systems, gaming and VR definitely go hand-in-hand. Thanks to the fact that Facebook recently teamed up with the creators of the Oculus Rift headset, game players are able to get a feel for what VR gaming is bound to look like when it does take the leap and become available for mass consumption. From PS players to XBox players to PC game players, even ardent online casino game players may be able to optimize their gameplay if VR is incorporated within their various online slot gaming. Top casino online brands found in the iGaming world, for example, PartyCasino may initially only be able to offer online slot gameplay of the augmented reality persuasion, but the inclusion of VR in the future is by all means a possibility. 
3. Movies & Television 
Sure to be a complete game changer, the prospect of being able to enjoy a time when VR could be introduced to the film sector will no doubt equate to an entirely new way of watching films. This novel experience may include a type of viewing where individuals watching will determine which direction the film will go. Thanks to the level of free-will operation when engaged in the virtual reality mode, by engaging in the predetermined virtual world. 
Other ways in which VR affects our lives tend to be the more hush-hush proponents of VR. Perhaps this next factor only really became known as technology advancements allowed for beta testing (and more) of virtual reality systems to be tested and tried. Cybersickness 
This effect is felt by VR game players who after a period of time spent operating in the VR environment start to feel a type of motion sickness . Believed to be side effects of the temporal displacement experienced by the VR headset usage, and due to the shift in perception, the VR player’s balance is negatively affected. Bouts of nausea may ensue after a mere 30 minutes, for some players, or up to two hours for other VR players. 
Soon enough we may very well have first-hand accounts of virtual reality, what works and what simply does not. 
In the meantime, one can surely rest easy knowing that the future is indeed now with VR systems creeping ever-closer to mass availability. We’re definitely excited about what implications for a VR-infused future may be. Now and into the future.   
How VR Is Affecting All Our Lives added by Exclusive on April 11, 2018