Apply now! FRONTEND ARCHITECT AT GEARS OF LEO IN STOCKHOLM 
Would you love to work with the latest technology in Frontend Development? Then apply to Gears of Leo in Stockholm, Sweden! Employer Gears of Leo We let your potential and competence determine your future - not gut feeling or prejudices. Questions about the job? Contact your recruiter for more info. Mathias Jonsson 0708 53 52 06 senast ändrad: april 11th, 2018 by jonas Would you love to work with the latest technology in Frontend Development? Then apply to Gears of Leo in Stockholm, Sweden! Do you like to take initiative? Do you want to grow as an individual and a professional? If you answered yes to these questions, we would like to get in contact with you! Gears of Leo are now hiring a Frontend Architect who will work close to the development team and be a key to the company´s continued success. OUR OFFER TO YOU 
Gears of Leo believe that the community you work in is just as important as the job you do. Sharing knowledge and collaboration is the backbone of their office and maintaining a strong work family is what makes that possible. Gears of Leo work hard to create a diverse, inclusive workplace where you can have a great work-life balance and love the work you do. 
You will be surrounded with colleagues from all over the world, who will share your big interest and knowledge in tech and IT. You will be part of an organization that has made an incredible journey and they are constantly looking forward to taking on new challenges. THIS IS WHAT YOU WILL DO 
In your role, you will be responsible (together with the platform tech-dev team) for constantly making sure the frontend architecture and frameworks fulfil their daily business needs from a technical point of view as well as being an enabler for the future. 
Gears of Leos customers enjoy their products via many different channels, and their passion is to lead the way into the mobile future. Therefore, they prioritize mobile channels and strive to be number one on mobile and industry leaders. You will be the driving force in making sure that Gears of Leo constantly modernize their tech stack to give them the edge that they need. IN ADDITION... 
This position can be stationed in Stockholm, Växjö or Västerås. In Stockholm you will be located at Luntmakargatan 18, in a newly renovated building with very high standard. You will work close with the tech-dev team, where the size can be from 5-20 people, in which you have developers in both front -and backend, designers, testers and PM. WHO ARE YOU? 
We believe that you share the dedication to enabling the greatest user experience ever in the gaming industry and that you have experience in building and maintaining scaled web systems for a worldwide audience. Since there´s no room for downtime the online gaming platform needs to be stable and always up and running. 
We see a person who has experience as a system architect and have great experience to work with the architecture in similar business/projects and/or experience from the ecommerce sector. 
We also see that you have extensive experience with Javascript and Node.js and knowledge and experience with mobile solutions and technologies such as HTML5, CSS and React.js. It is a requirement that you can speak and write in English at a professional level. Gears of Leo 
Gears of Leo is the tech and product company within LeoVegas mobile gaming group. Our vision is to create the greatest gaming experience and to lead the way into the mobile future. We power LeoVegas Group, creating and developing highly innovative products that our customers love, and we always work with cutting edge technology. 
We strongly believe that diversity of experience, perspective, and background leads to a inspiring work environment for our employees and a better product for our users, and the over 20 different nationalities represented in our company are proof of that. As an employee of one of the fastest growing companies in Europe, you’ll have the opportunity to take your career to the next level. Based in Sweden, we have centrally-located offices in Stockholm, Västerås and Växjö. We´re constantly looking for new talent; join us to see what a career at Gears of Leo can offer you. INTERESTED? We work with TNG IT Digital in this recruitment process. They are recruitment specialists in unbiased and competence based recruitment, which creates diversity and innovation in teams and contribute to a sustainable employment market. If you are interested in this position, apply right now! The selection process is ongoing and the position can be filled before the last apply-date. If you have any questions, please contact the recruiter. 