Press Room The Government enhances support to smaller cinemas throughout the country In the spring amending budget for 2018, the Government is investing an additional SEK 15 million in 2018 to provide temporary enhanced support to smaller cinemas and film festivals. This is a boost in addition to the investment of SEK 25 million being made annually in 2016–2019. The investment is based on an agreement between the Government and the Left Party. Photo: Magnus Hjalmarson Neideman/TT 
“Culture throughout the country is a priority issue for me. There has been great demand for the funds we have already earmarked for cinemas in smaller towns and to film festivals. We will therefore provide an additional SEK 15 million to this initiative this year,” says Minister for Culture and Democracy Alice Bah Kuhnke. 
The Swedish Film Institute will be tasked with deciding on the details of how the support will be used, based on the needs of the target group. This could entail an increase in the amount of support provided per application, or of making support available to broader target groups. It could also entail enhanced support to other actors that contribute to a dynamic film culture throughout the country, such as film festivals. 
This is one of several investments in Swedish film and film production the Government has made during this electoral period. The new film policy 
Sweden has had a new film policy since 1 January 2017. The new film policy aims to strengthen the conditions to allow more unique film stories to be developed and reach an audience. The previous film agreement no longer fulfilled its function, and the Government terminated the agreement to improve the possibilities of developing a national film policy that strengthens development and access to Swedish film. Film policy support is of central importance to implementation of the film policy. All support provided must aim to help achieve the film policy goals and be characterised by transparency, predictability and a long-term approach. Bearing in mind the principle of keeping an arm’s length between politics and artistic decisions, the Government’s management of national film support should be limited.When the film agreement was terminated, VAT for access to cinema screenings was increased from 6 per cent to 25 per cent. At the same time the VAT was increased, the Government raised the allocation to film by SEK 235 million to replace the funds contributed by the industry to the film agreement. In addition, SVT (Swedish Television) continued to invest funds corresponding to a similar level as previously, so that in all, more money goes to Swedish film than before. 
Published