Diös expands Executive Management with Mia Forsgren, CCO Thu, Apr 12, 2018 06:00 CET 
Mia Forsgren, who has been Diös’ Chief Communication Officer (CCO) since 2016, now becomes part of the Executive Management. She is responsible for Diös’ branding and positioning and is part of the development work that Diös operates with a clearer digital presence and new business models . 
Mia has over 25 years of experience in communication and marketing from different industries focusing on digital change. With 15 years in the music industry, recently as Marketing Director at Universal Music, she has been a part of and pushed the music industry's evolution in digital leadership. Mia has also worked as CEO of Tre Kronor Media, operated her own consultancy agency in PR and communications, and was CEO at the advertising agency Ogilvy Destination. 
The real estate industry faces major challenges in the changing needs and behaviors we see in the market today. Mia has participated in the digital transformation that the music and media industries have undergone and which is ongoing in the real estate industry. We need new knowledge and new influences. Through Mia, we strengthen our competency in management and create better conditions for meeting and understanding the real estate market and our tenants' new opportunities and changing needs, says Knut Rost, CEO. 
Including Mia, Diös Executive Management consist of six members. 
For further information, please contact: 
Knut Rost, CEO Diös FastigheterPhone: +46 (0)10-470 95 01 
This information is information that Diös Fastigheter AB is obliged to make public pursuant to the EU Market Abuse Regulation and the Securities Markets Act. The information was submitted for publication, through the agency of the contact person set out above, at 06:00 CET on 12 April 2018. 
Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19.5 billion, a portfolio of 339 properties and a lettable area of 1,553,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se 
Tags: real estate , Diös , Diös Fastigheter About Us 
Diös Fastigheter owns and develops both commercial and residential properties in prioritized growth areas in northern Sweden. With a market value of approx. SEK 19 billion, a portfolio of 347 properties and a lettable area of 1,580,000 sq.m, our vision is to be the most active and sought-after landlord in our market. The properties are located from Borlänge to Luleå with its head office in Östersund. The company has since 2005 had a continuous growth in value in the property portfolio and the share is listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm, Mid Cap. Learn more about Diös on www.dios.se Subscribe