Proof is in the pudding in Play’n GO’s Baker’s Treat Thu, Apr 12, 2018 09:57 CET 
12th April 2018 – Omni-channel slots specialist Play’n GO will indulge players with its scrumptious new title straight out of the oven, Baker’s Treat . 
The five reel, two-way-pay slot takes place in a twee British kitchen, with a selection of edible goodies laid out in front of star bakers as they look to gorge through winning lines and consume big wins. 
Each table runner challenges players to land the right stack of high-paying sweet treats on it, earning a token in the process, and once three have been bagged, one of the five Flour Power Spin features will be triggered. 
These will double-up reels, upgrade macarons to the high-paying cakes, pies, sponges and other indulgent bakes, or introduce wild reels across the dining table. 
When each reel’s select bake lands across all five at once, the Bake Off feature will set off all five Flour Power’s consecutively, rising players’ balances in the process. 
Johan T ö rnqvist, CEO of Play’n GO, said: “Baker’s Treat sees the much-loved great British pastime of baking combined with a gaming experience and premium design that will have players’ stomachs rumbling. 
“This latest release shows the quality and breadth of our entertainment provision. Having experienced significant success with our recent gridslot Sweet Alchemy, Baker’s Treat goes back to the much-loved classic slot layout and this variety ensures our players will never get bored.” 
About Play’n GO 
Play’n GO is an award-winning supplier of high quality gaming content to many of the world’s leading casino brands. Its genuine omni-channel solution can be tailored to suit the needs of individual online and land-based partners, regardless of geographical, regulatory, or market-specific requirements. Its games are developed in HTML5 to provide an enhanced user experience on all devices and operating systems. These are complemented by superior back-office administration tools which provide expansive reporting and marketing capabilities, ensuring operators are equipped to provide the ultimate gaming experience. The supplier’s extensive portfolio was recently recognised by the award of the IGA Slot Provider of the Year 2017 title. Play’n GO currently hold offices in Sweden, Malta, Hungary, and the UK. Please visit http://www.playngo.com for more details. 
Tags: online casino , new release , Playn GO , premium games About Us 
Play’n GO is a gaming specialist and the leading mobile casino gaming developer. Our games are designed for great performance on smartphones, tablets, terminals and websites. By combining extensive experience with the latest technology we create products that are truly modern, complete & highly flexible. Play’n GO’s premium gaming content, designed for multi-device consumption stand out from the competition and are greatly appreciated by players worldwide. Contacts