
6 March-13 May: Pirelli Calendar 2018 at Multimedia Art Museum Moscow 
7-15 April: Easter Gift festival © Alexander Kalashnikoff 
27 April-9 May: Moscow Spring A Cappella festival 
17-27 May: Fish Week 
Spring events at the Tretyakov Gallery For an artistic look into Russia’s fascinating past, Moscow’s Tretyakov Gallery is not to be missed. Two of the gallery’s spring exhibitions include Masterpieces of Russian Graphics, from the collection of the State Historical Museum (open until 6 May) and Pictures of Russian History (open until 22 July), which feature works from the Russian masters of the 19th and early 20th century, and offer an insight into Russia at the turn of the century. Covering everything from the coronation of Tsar Nicholas II to travellers trekking through the Siberian snow, both exhibitions, as well as the gallery’s permanent collections, are certainly worth a visit. 
Bolshoi Theatre spring season The most famous theatre in Russia, if not the world, the Bolshoi boasts many incredible performances this season across ballet, opera and music. Ballet highlights include the iconic Russian tale of Anna Karenina as well as Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet, and The Taming of the Shrew. Opera fans will delight in musical performances of The Snow Maiden and Iolanta, to mark the 175th anniversary of Tchaikovsky’s birthday, and the event will also feature his famous symphonic suite from the Nutcracker. 
6 March-13 May: Pirelli Calendar 2018 at Multimedia Art Museum Moscow The annual Pirelli Calendar has become a cultural highlight, fusing together the worlds of fashion, art and popular culture. For the 2018 calendar, Pirelli looked to renowned British photographer Tim Walker to create a fantastical take on Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland. Global stars such as Whoopi Goldberg, Lupita Nyong’o and Naomi Campbell came together to create the story, shot in Tim’s characteristically whimsical style. From 6 March until 13 May these stunning images will be on show at Multimedia Art Museum Moscow (MAMM), offering visitors a chance to see Wonderland for themselves. 
7-15 April: Easter Gift festival In Moscow, Easter is not only a time for religious reflection, but also a time for celebration and charitable giving. The Easter Gift festival takes place over a week in 38 different venues across the city. Visitors to the festival can expect to be offered delicious traditional Easter treats while enjoying a huge variety of plays, workshops and other activities designed to celebrate the spirit of Easter. The festival also gives people the chance to donate to some of Russia’s largest charitable foundations through purchasing souvenirs, participating in auctions and even playing a charity game of golf right in the heart of the city. 
27 April-9 May: Moscow Spring A Cappella festival Now in its second year, the international Moscow Spring A Cappella festival draws in performers from across the globe. Solo artists and groups will turn the whole city into a giant concert hall, with performances taking place in central streets and squares, rooftops, parks and even on balconies. Throughout the festival singers put on open rehearsals and workshops ahead of the main competition, which sees contestants compete for a prize of around $300,000. 
17-27 May: Fish Week Established in 2015, with the aim of encouraging more people to eat Russian fish, Fish Week is a 10-day long festival that offers something for everyone. Throughout the festival, chefs from some of the most prestigious restaurants in the city will hold cookery masterclasses, while food companies and fishmongers will be selling fish from specially built wooden lodges. The festival offers visitors the chance to sample some of the best fish that Russia has to offer, and will also showcasing performances by local dancers and musicians, all designed to promote local produce. 