Helsinki Airport’s route selection grows rapidly – see the list of all new routes Thu, Apr 12, 2018 12:01 CET 
This year, connections from Finland’s largest airport to destinations around the world will again increase significantly. There will be new routes, additional flights to familiar destinations and larger aircraft. 
“There are exceptionally good flight connections to Finland from all around the world. Both holidaymakers and business life benefit from the most versatile route selection in the Nordic countries. Of all airports in Northern Europe, we have by far the most connections to Asia, which attracts especially Chinese and Japanese to Finland,” notes Joni Sundelin , Finavia’s new Director of Helsinki Airport. 
Finavia actively develops routes to attract new airlines to Finland and to increase the country’s flight connections even further. In the airport business, the company’s competitive advantages include, among other things, well-functioning and cost-efficient services, such as snow-how and short turnaround times, as well as competitive airport charges. 
“The number of transfer connections has increased by more than 75% within the last decade in Helsinki Airport, and about 50 airlines operate regularly at the airport. We are negotiating with several airlines on new launches, additional routes and the deployment of larger aircraft,” says Sundelin. 
Currently, Helsinki Airport is undergoing a EUR 900 million development programme getting ready to serve 30 million passengers. There were nearly 19 million passengers at the airport in 2017. It is expected that the milestone of 20 million passengers per year will be reached this year. 
See all new routes and additional flights that have been announced for Helsinki Airport for 2018 by Blue Air, BRA, Croatia Airlines, EasyJet, Finnair, Lufthansa, Norwegian, Qatar Airways, SAS, Turkish Airlines, Vueling and Widerøe. 
Finavia Communications 
Media Desk tel. 358 20 708 2002, 
Finavia provides and develops airport services with a focus on safety, customer-orientation and cost efficiency in Finland. Finavia’s comprehensive network of 21 airports enables international connections from Finland — and to areas throughout Finland. Helsinki Airport is the leading Northern European transit airport for long-haul traffic. In 2017, corporate revenue totalled MEUR 374 and the number of employees was 2,700. www.finavia.fi 
Tags: Finland , flights , Routes , Finavia , travelling , Helsinki Airport , Passengers , air traffic , Finland Tourism , Chinese tourism About Us 
Finavia provides and develops airport services with focus on safety, customer-orientation and cost efficiency. Finavia’s comprehensive network of 21 airports enables international connections from Finland — and to different parts of Finland. Helsinki Airport is the leading Northern European transit airport for long-haul traffic. Revenues in 2017 were EUR 374 million, and the number of employees 2700. Contacts