Fabege sells property in Vasastan Thu, Apr 12, 2018 11:30 CET 
Fabege has sold the Resedan 3 property in Vasastan to Probitas. The sale is being made in the form of a company, with an underlying property value of SEK 215m. 
In comparison with the valuation at the start of the year, the transaction results in a profit of SEK 39m before tax and SEK 65m after tax. The amount will be reported under unrealised changes in value in Q1. 
- Resedan was a somewhat lonely item in our portfolio and Probitas was an obvious buyer, as it already owns a property in that area,” comments Klaus Hansen Vikström, Vice President and Director of Business Development at Fabege. 
The property is located at Dalagatan 13, Odengatan 76, opposite Vasaparken in Stockholm. It is a combined residential and office building with a size of approximately 3,480 sqm, and was built in 1929. The largest tenant is PostNord. There are also eight residential flats in the property. 
- We are very pleased about expanding our property holdings in our focus area of Norrmalm/Vasastan,” comments Samuel Borg, President and Group CEO of Probitas. 
Fabege AB (publ) 
For further information, please contact: Åsa Bergström, Deputy CEO and CFO, phone 46 (0)8 555 148 29, 46 (0)70 666 13 80 Klaus Hansen Vikström, Vice President and Director of Business Development, +46 (0)8-555 148 74, +46 (0)70-239 34 81 
Fabege is a property company focusing on city district development and commercial properties. We develop attractive and sustainable districts with modern offices, housing and a broad range of services - together with strategic partners. Both our perspective and approach to ownership are long term and our passion is creating the right conditions for all those living, working and visiting our areas. We have a presence in a limited number of high-growth submarkets in the Stockholm region. Fabege’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, in the Large Cap segment. For more information, www.fabege.com 
Tags: Fabege , property , selling About Us 
We are a property company focusing on city district development and commercial properties. We develop attractive and sustainable districts with modern offices, housing and a broad range of services - together with strategic partners. Both our perspective and approach to ownership are long term and our passion is creating the right conditions for all those living, working and visiting our areas. We have a presence in a limited number of high-growth submarkets in the Stockholm region. Fabege’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, in the Large Cap segment. Contacts