Regler för kommentering Master of Mates STCW II/3 
Northern Offshore Services (N-O-S) with its headquarters in Gothenburg, Sweden is part of the Northern Group with some 230 employees. Northern Offshore Services is a European leader in providing crew transfer and vessel management solutions to the offshore wind industry. Northern Offshore Services have offices in Sweden, Denmark and the UK and we currently own and operate 40 modern Crew Transfer Vessels (CTVs). Our vision is BEST365. To be the best at what we do every day. Visit http://www.n-o-s.eu to learn more. 
Are you the one? Our customers include major utility companies such as Ørsted, SIEMENS and MHI VESTAS etc., which demands high quality and reliability in our supplied services. The offshore wind farms are located in Europe and we are working in an internationalized environment. Today, we have many vessels in operation with more vessels on the way. 
Due to this further expansion, we are now seeking Masters or Mates. As a Master or Mate you will be responsible for the daily transport of technicians and spare parts for the wind energy stations offshore in Europe. You are going to be an important person in order to create the highest standard of professional service for our customers. You will also have to cooperate with our onshore management. We are looking for persons with offshore knowledge and the right qualifications (STCW II/3) or higher and a positive attitude. You must have the ability to cooperate with your colleagues and you must also have the ability to express yourself orally and in writing, both in Danish or Swedish and in English. 
If you are able to handle the German language this will be a plus. In the work, you are expected to act and make independent deci-sions but at the same time have good inter-personal skills. We offer you to work in a new exciting and fast growing industry which offers good opportunities for development and future career paths. 
Do you want to know more? You are welcome to contact our HR Coordinators for more information about what it’s like to work at N-O-S. Don’t wait to send in your application – the selection process is ongoing. We are looking forward to hear from you! 
HR COORDINATORS