Expert review by : Jim Fisher (pcmag.com) Sony a7R III The a7R III takes Sony's proven high-resolution full-frame mirrorless camera and improves upon its speed, autofocus system, and video capabilities. Proven 42MP full-frame sensor. Improved processor and autofocus system. 10fps image capture with tracking. Silent shooting option. Tilting touch LCD. Dual card slots. Larger battery than a7R II. Only one card slot supports UHS-II speeds. No built-in flash. No in-camera time-lapse support. Can't start video until image buffer is cleared. Dense menu system. The a7R III doesn't offer increased resolution when compared with its predecessor, but that doesn't mean it's not a serious upgrade. It takes a sensor that's already proven to deliver excellent performance and ekes a bit more dyanmic range out of it,... Dec, 2017 Expert review by : Jim Fisher (pcmag.com) Sony a7R III The a7R III takes Sony's proven high-resolution full-frame mirrorless camera and improves upon its speed, autofocus system, and video capabilities. Proven 42MP full-frame sensor. Improved processor and autofocus system. 10fps image capture with tracking. Silent shooting option. Tilting touch LCD. Dual card slots. Larger battery than a7R II. Only one card slot supports UHS-II speeds. No built-in flash. I'm not rating the a7R III at this time. I've only had a few hours to use it, and there's simply more testing required before I go about recommending a $3,200 camera. Oct, 2017 Expert review by : David Elrich (digitaltrends.com) Sony A7R Mark III hands-on review With big improvements to battery life and performance, Sony's A7R Mark III is a worthy successor. 42.4MP full-frame sensor ; 10 FPS burst shooting ; Vastly improved battery life ; Improved image stabilization ; Improved AF performance No “anti-distortion shutter” rating ; Burst mode limits compressed RAWs to 12-bit Oct, 2017 Expert review by : Michael Palmer (steves-digicams.com) Sony A7R III UPDATE: Buy the a7R III now at Amazon.com! Click HERE to get yours. Oct, 2017 Expert review by : David Elrich (digitaltrends.com) Sony A7 III hands-on review Neither the fastest nor highest resolution, the A7 III is still be best all-around full-frame camera. Excellent still image quality ; Excellent 4K video ; 10 FPS continuous shooting ; Significantly improved battery life ; Best value in its class Slightly heavier than mark II model