Publicerad 2018-04-13 06:24 Position Description Do you want to have the opportunity to work in an international environment with skilled lawyers around the world? Do you want to join a diverse team and have the opportunity to further develop your career as a lawyer? Then keep reading, this is the role for you! This is us, Volvo Trucks: We are the largest of the five Trucks brand organizations in the Volvo Group and we are now looking for our new Legal Counsel! Volvo Trucks operates from an HQ in Gothenburg, Sweden and we have business activities managed from our four Sales Areas around the world (Australia Oceania, Asia, Middle East, and Africa). You will be part of the VT Legal team, and you will report to SVP Legal Volvo Trucks. You will be based in Gothenburg with us, and our team consists of seven lawyers. Our entire team works closely with both internal and external lawyers, and thanks to the large network of lawyers within AB Volvo you’re given the opportunity to work with different parts of the entire Volvo Group. This is what we offer: By joining our team, you’re given the opportunity to: Work in a truly international environment Participate in trainings to continue your development as a lawyer Work closely with the business Be part of a diversified legal team Travel occasionally to our markets This is what you will do: As the Legal Counsel you will provide legal services to Volvo Trucks’ businesses in both Sales Area International and VT HQ in Gothenburg. Besides ensuring that our business activities comply with relevant (international) laws and regulation as well as internal legal processes and procedures, you will also: Provide proactive and creative legal guidance Support on various legal matters Identify and mitigate legal risks In other words, you will anticipate, evaluate, communicate and mitigate legal and regulatory risks facing the business in Sales Area International. In addition to this, you will: Draft review and negotiate agreements and other legal documents Act as a team player together with other Volvo Trucks lawyers in larger or long term legal projects Manage day-to-day compliance matters Collaborate with the Legal community at Volvo Trucks and the Volvo Group Provide legal training on various relevant issues to business people Manage relationships with outside legal services providers This is you: As Legal Counsel at Volvo Trucks, we believe that you hold a law degree and 7+ years of work experience. To thrive in this role, we believe that your experience is from working in either a law firm or a combination of law firm/Swedish court/in-house experience at an international company. To fit in and be successful in this culturally diverse organization, you have strong communication and interpersonal skills. You also have the ability to network both internally and externally across functions and geographies. On top of this, you also enjoy analyzing and you have a passion for problem solving. Other key requirements for this role are: Proficiency in independently handling legal matters relevant to a global corporate group Experience in distribution law, corporate law and drafting commercial contracts High proficiency in written and spoken English If this sounds like your next step in your career, we would love to receive your application! Apply HERE If you have any questions, or want to hear more about the role, please get in touch with: Ingmari Anderson VP Legal VTC +46 76 5537470Karoline Hult, HRBP +46739027577 
About us The Volvo Group is one of the world’s leading manufacturers of trucks, buses, construction equipment and marine and industrial engines under the leading brands Volvo, Renault Trucks, Mack, UD Trucks, Eicher, SDLG, Terex Trucks, Prevost, Nova Bus, UD Bus, Sunwin Bus and Volvo Penta. 
The Volvo Trucks brand has been built up over decades and enjoys a solid position worldwide. It is one of the world’s best known and respected brands within the commercial vehicle industry. It is associated with the core values quality, safety and environmental care. With Volvo Trucks you will be part of a global and diverse team. We work with passion, we trust each other and we embrace change to stay ahead. We make our customers win.