Alexion to acquire Wilson Therapeutics for $855 million   
Alexion Pharmaceuticals has made a recommended public cash offer to the shareholders in Wilson to acquire all outstanding shares in Wilson Therapeutics by way of a tender offer, through a wholly-owned subsidiary. 
“The acquisition of Wilson Therapeutics is a strong strategic fit for Alexion given the overlap with our current clinical and commercial focus on metabolic and neurologic disorders, and is an important first step in rebuilding our clinical pipeline,” said Ludwig Hantson, CEO of Alexion. 
The Swedish biopharmaceutical company develops novel therapies for patients with rare copper-mediated disorders. Wilson Therapeutics’ product, WTX101, is in Phase 3 development as a treatment for Wilson disease, a rare genetic disorder with devastating hepatic and neurological consequences for patients. WTX101 is a first-in-class oral copper-binding agent with a mechanism of action and ability to access and bind copper from serum and promote its removal from the liver. WTX101 has received Fast Track designation in the U.S. and Orphan Drug Designation for the treatment of Wilson disease in the U.S. and EU. 
“Alexion is a global leader in rare diseases with a proven record of developing and commercializing therapies for patients with rare diseases, making them a great partner to make WTX101 available to Wilson disease patients worldwide,” said Jonas Hansson, CEO of Wilson Therapeutics. The Transaction 
Alexion, through a wholly owned subsidiary, has offered SEK 232 in cash for each outstanding share of Wilson Therapeutics. The total equity value of the transaction amounts to SEK 7,100 million, based on outstanding shares on a fully diluted basis, or approximately $855 million. The Independent Committee of the Board of Directors of Wilson Therapeutics has unanimously recommended Wilson Therapeutics shareholders accept the offer and Alexion’s Board of Directors also unanimously approved the offer. Alexion has obtained shareholder support agreements from the four largest shareholders accounting for 57.4% of Wilson Therapeutics’ outstanding shares and two additional shareholders accounting for 8.7% for a total of 66.1% of Wilson Therapeutics’ outstanding shares, to the effect that these shareholders have undertaken to accept the offer on certain terms. In addition, Polar Capital, holding 7.3% of Wilson Therapeutics’ outstanding shares, has expressed its support for, and intends to accept, the Offer, for a total support of 73.4%. The acquisition of Wilson Therapeutics requires approval of relevant regulatory authorities, and Alexion expects to obtain such approvals prior to the end of the acceptance period. The tender offer is expected to complete and the transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2018. Alexion intends to finance the acquisition through cash on hand. 
Photo of Jonas Hansson: Youtube