Taiwan brings world first solutions to Las Vegas Las Vegas, Nv (USA) The TAITRA conference in Vegas gave visitors the chance to hear about new cutting edge technologies from Everfocus, Geovision, Planet and Vivotek. 
Insights and a first look at cutting-edge products from Taiwan’s top innovators —Everfocus, Geovision, Planet and Vivotek—were the highlights of the press conference at ISC West 2018, organised by the Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA). These breakthrough products, with potential to transform the global security market, include a futuristic Virtual Reality 720° camera, a facial recognition dome camera, a cutting-edge Internet of Vehicle (IoV) fleet surveillance system, an IP camera armed with anti-intrusion software, and a next-gen intuitive colour touch LCD switch. 
All winners of the Taiwan Excellence Awards, these four companies all demonstrated new products that could be positioned to transform the global security industry. 
Firstly, Everfocus unveiled details of the company’s Xfleet Management Platform which aims to not only transform the IoV experience, but the future of vehicle fleet management. The new solution allows users to easily track, monitor and manage any type of fleet vehicles on a Web browser anywhere and anytime. With Xfleet, users can not only reduce overall costs by effectively utilising resources such as vehicles, fuel, and manpower, but also improve management efficiency and business performance by keeping and analyzing the historical records of the vehicle data as needed. 
Geovision on the other hand, presented the VR 360, the world’s first Virtual Reality camera that can provide a 720° view. President David Huang said it’s the only camera with two Fisheye lenses to provide a floor to ceiling, 720° view with no blind spots. It is designed for security environments such as airports, train stations, city streets, harbours and highways. The camera uses advanced computer vision technology to simulate a three-dimensional, highly realistic, and practical 3D space. It is water-proof, vandal-proof and dust resistant, making it ideal for outdoors. It also boasts IR night mode for clear images even in dark environments. 
Geovision also demonstrated a new facial recognition IP dome camera with cutting-edge AI, designed to recognise human faces in 1.5 seconds - making it possible to differentiate between authorised and non-authorised personnel, create blacklists for restricted personnel, and VIP lists to improve relationship management. 
The newly released Intuitive Touch LCD Switch from Planet makes it possible to easily manage powered devices in real time, greatly enhancing network management efficiency. Tammy Huang, Sales Manager, noted that it’s the unique touch LCD that makes such management possible. In addition to the touch LCD interface, the solution features L2+ switching, intelligent PoE management and an ONVIF support function. An Industrial flat-type touch LCD switch model is also offered, making possible management of large-scale networks. 
And finally, Shengfu Cheng, Director of Marketing and Product Development at Vivotekt, demonstrated what are being launched as the first cyber security enhanced network cameras in the IP surveillance industry. The three new cameras are armed with Trend Micro’s anti-intrusion software, allowing them to automatically detect and prevent credential attacks and block suspicious events. They also feature Vovotek’s Smart Stream II and H.265 technology, allowing users to benefit from reduced bandwidth and data storage demands by up to 90% more than systems employing H.264. Add to that a new generation of night visibility technology, Supreme Night Visibility II (SNV II) which allows them to reproduce high quality colour images, even in very low-light conditions. 
In the security industry, the United States is the largest buyer of electronic security products and spent $12.3 billion on imports in the field in 2016. And Taiwan constitutes North America’s 4th largest trade partner in the electronic security field, with an import value that was close to $1 billion in 2016. Tags