ABB Ability™ for innovative electric water taxi Fri, Apr 13, 2018 15:03 CET 
Geneva, Switzerland, April 13, 2018 
A futuristic, zero-emission new design of water taxi, called SeaBubbles, was successfully demonstrated today on Lake Geneva in Switzerland. The vehicle represents a milestone in the development of new forms of transportation that do not impact the environment or place any burden on urban infrastructure. The water taxi will soon be equipped with the ABB Ability ™ Marine Advisory System – OCTOPUS , a software solution that helps vessel operators gather and analyze all relevant data to optimize water travel. 
The development of the demonstration craft was supported by the Geneva cantonal authorities and the Department of Energy, Transport and Agriculture (DETA), represented by State Councilors Luc Barthassat and Pierre Maudet, drawing on technology from ABB. Further trials will continue in the months ahead. 
The ABB Ability™ Marine Advisory System – OCTOPUS will be deployed by the pilot project beginning in early May. The OCTOPUS system will enable ABB to provide real-time data to the SeaBubbles control center, covering virtually every aspect of the vessels’ operating status. 
ABB (ABBN: SIX Swiss Ex) is a pioneering technology leader in electrification products, robotics and motion, industrial automation and power grids, serving customers in utilities, industry, and transport & infrastructure globally. Continuing a history of innovation spanning more than 130 years, ABB today is writing the future of industrial digitalization with two clear value propositions: bringing electricity from any power plant to any plug, and automating industries from natural resources to finished products. As title partner of Formula E, the fully electric international FIA motorsport class, ABB is pushing the boundaries of e-mobility to contribute to a sustainable future. ABB operates in more than 100 countries with about 135,000 employees. www.abb.com 
Contact: Media Relations, media.relations@ch.abb.com, +41 43 317 71 11 
Follow ABB on social media: Facebook | LinkedIn | Instagram | Twitter | YouTube About Us 
ABB (ABBN: SIX Swiss Ex) is a pioneering technology leader in electrification products, robotics and motion, industrial automation and power grids, serving customers in utilities, industry and transport & infrastructure globally. Continuing a history of innovation spanning more than 130 years, ABB today is writing the future of industrial digitalization with two clear value propositions: bringing electricity from any power plant to any plug and automating industries from natural resources to finished products. As title partner of Formula E, the fully electric international FIA motorsport class, ABB is pushing the boundaries of e-mobility to contribute to a sustainable future. ABB operates in more than 100 countries with about 135,000 employees. www.abb.com Contacts