Axis gains UK Cyber Essentials certification Luton, Bedfordshire (UK) 
Axis Communications has recently received Cyber Essentials accreditation in the UK. The scheme, launched by the government in 2014, encourages businesses of all sizes in any industry to adhere to best-practices in IT security. 
Achieving this accreditation highlights Axis’ dedication to ensuring its systems are secure from hackers, enabling it to apply the same knowledge and expertise to the technologies it develops. 
The Cyber Essentials scheme is a cyber security standard that identifies the security controls that an organisation must have in place within their IT systems, giving them the confidence that they are addressing cyber security effectively and mitigating the risk of internet-based threats. It is important that, as a supplier of innovative physical security and analytical technology, Axis’ customers are reassured they are working with a company that takes cyber security seriously. 
The accreditation is about more than securing a firm’s own IT systems, however. As the use of networked technologies, such as IP surveillance and access control devices, continues to increase in the UK, more data than ever is being processed and stored. In light of the impending EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), businesses are beginning to pay more attention to the security credentials their suppliers possess, making schemes such as Cyber Essentials that much more important for manufacturers and vendors. 
Atul Rajput, Regional Director, Northern Europe at Axis Communications, states, “At Axis, we have always had a 100% focus on cyber security. That is why we are constantly working hard to mitigate cyber risks within our company and in the solutions we develop. Receiving accreditation from the UK government backed Cyber Essentials scheme highlights our commitment to continuing to support our customers in adopting a best practice approach to all areas of cyber security. Openness, trust and transparency are core to fighting the threat of cyber crime and we welcome schemes such as Cyber Essentials, which help give clarity and assurance to all those within the supply chain.” Email: