Indigovision strengthens surveillance offering Edinburgh, UK 
The latest product release from Indigovision is designed to allow users to maximize their security systems potential and includes the latest version of the Security Management Solution, Control Center, a new cyber security innovation Cybervigilant in Camera, the Integra all in one device, and three additional products which strengthen their existing security offering. 
Indigovision’s Control Center has been designed to have an effective bulletproof nature, to search and review forensic features and the software is intuitive and easy to use. The release of v15.2 is no exception with the introduction of Dynamic Profile Switching and improved support for analytics, both of which enable Control Center to grow with any business. 
Cybervigilant in Camera is a unique and innovative cyber security offering, and a comprehensive addition to Indigovision’s cyber range. Users receive notifications direct to their Control Center user interface in the event that a cyber attack takes place. 
Indigovision’s Integra provides users with a Control Room in a box by combining Control Center, an NVR and the License Server into a single device. It is perfect for small to medium sites such as retail, education, banking and hospitality. View and manage multi-site installations easily from a central location using Integra View Workstation. 
Indigovision’s existing security offering has also been further strengthened by the introduction of their new 200 channel NVR-AS 4000, BX HD PTZ dome camera and a BX 4MP microdome camera which is available in two variants. Each of these products uses the latest technology in the industry to provide users with the best options for their security systems. 
Pedro Simoes, Indigovision’s CEO, said “The six products we are releasing are greatly enriching Indigovision’s security solutions offering. Each product enables our customers to address different market segments, always maintaining a focus on quality and important considerations such as cyber security, to ensure potential issues are being addressed.” Tags