1233 lediga jobb på företaget Junior Chemist Researcher – developing next generation of Mycronic’s advanced systems 
As a prime driver in the electronics industry, our world-leading and unique production solutions impact the very future of technology. And our technology is everywhere. Inside jet motors travelling the globe. Inside people as pace makers continue to save lives. Even in space, as NASAs robot explores the lands of Mars. Right now, we are on a journey of growth, where we continue to explore new markets and expand worldwide. And on the road ahead, we need the right kind of people by our side. People, perhaps, much like you. Last day to apply: 18th of April. INFORMATION OM UPPDRAGET You will play an important role in the continued growth of Mycronic. When becoming one of our junior engineers, you are assigned your own mentor. Together with our extensive introduction program we make sure that you receive the support you need. You will be part of a team developing the next generation of solder paste for Mycronics products, cooperating with our international solder paste suppliers and partners. You have base knowledge and interest of electronics and your passion is chemistry. Depending on your future ambitions, you will be able to develop within the physics groups technology areas: * Solder paste * Simulation and modelling ARBETSUPPGIFTER You will be working in cross functional teams together with our experienced researchers who will guide you during your journey from junior researcher into a full-fledged product developer. You will work in projects that vary over several development phases from idea to finished product. Project scope will include new functionality as well as customer support. Your job tasks will concern: * Rheology measurements * High speed camera, SEM and EDX measurements * Jetting with our machines and analysis of the jetting performance * Solder paste development according to our development process * Participate in specification and review of requirements * Report status to project management and escalate any deviations from plan * Synchronize your development with other projects and project members VI SÖKER DIG SOM Do you have the drive to deliver results, the courage to try new paths and the desire to excel together? If so, Mycronic could be the right place for you. You are innovative, analytic and a true team player with an open attitude and a high level of personal responsibility. On top of this, you need: * a MSc in Chemistry or other relevant area of knowledge * strong knowledge and interest within inorganic chemistry * to be fluent in English, both written and spoken. Other information Work area: Chemistry - Solder paste research Place of employment: Headquarters in Täby, right outside Stockholm Country: Sweden Contact person/s: Tim Knutsson ( [email protected] ) and Johanna Sörell ( [email protected] ) What does Mycronic do? 