Poland’s leading producer of cleaning products—VOIGT—deploys IFS Applications to accelerate growth Mon, Apr 16, 2018 09:00 CET 
IFS Applications supports key business processes at Voigt, empowering the company to capitalize on optimized maintenance services 
IFS , the global enterprise applications company, announces that PPUH Voigt , the leading manufacturer of professional cleaning products in the Polish market, has implemented IFS Applications™ 9 to further increase efficiency and gain a competitive advantage. 
The Voigt company, a manufacturer of professional cleaning products, headquartered in Zabrze (Poland), has been on the market for over 25 years. Managing an extensive distribution network throughout Poland, Voigt focuses on institutional clients such as commercial enterprises, cleaning companies, as well as hospitality and catering industries. Voigt’s products are also available in the markets in several European countries, including Germany, Czech Republic, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, and Scotland. 
Voigt’s modern business model includes a number of solutions that effectively build a market advantage, including audit services, training, and a very effective service system. The service business area is an essential differentiator for the company as it increases its competitive advantage in the market. For example, Voigt’s customer training program focuses not only on the products offered, but also on techniques and technologies for maintaining cleanliness. 
IFS Applications replaced a legacy ERP system that did not meet Voigt's requirements for agility and business process effectiveness. One of the most important factors for choosing IFS Applications was the solution’s flexibility, ensuring full implementation of Voigt’s strategy and a new, modern sales model. 
IFS Applications supports the complete chain of the company's operations: sales, production, logistics, financials, procurement, HR, and service. The IFS solution also includes comprehensive support for managing the complete workflow of service orders: logging status changes and updates from receiving and creating new orders to concluding the job and reporting time, material, and expenses. 
"IFS Applications supports the dynamic growth of our company. Thanks to the implementation, our efficiency has increased, especially in production," said Jacek Grynicki, Managing Director and Proxy at PPUH VOIGT Sp. z o.o. "We gain our competitive advantage primarily by developing our service activities and training customers to maximize their utilization of our products. An important part of the deployment of IFS Applications was migrating the management customer service from legacy systems to a modern and fully integrated mobile solution. Furthermore, the introduction of new business solutions in sales has significantly increased our competitiveness in the market." 
Marcin Taranek, the President of IFS CEE, commented, "IFS Applications is perfectly adapted to supporting companies in the manufacturing sector and its functionality can be extended as the business needs of the customer grows. We are very pleased that our solution helps Voigt realize its growth strategy and capitalize on optimized maintenance services." 
For more information on IFS’s solutions for process manufacturing visit: www.ifsworld.com/corp/industries/process-manufacturing/ . 
Magdalena Golanska , VP Marketing, IFS in Central and Eastern Europe. Phone: 48 500 100 090, 
Anna Machol , PR, IFS in Poland. Phone: 48 512 134 493 , 
About Voigt 
Voigt, founded in 1992, specializes in the manufacturing and distribution of professional cleaning products. It is a company with traditions whose sum of production, technological and management experience allows it to maintain a high position on the market. Voigt products are appreciated and used not only by customers in Poland, but also in many European countries. In addition to a well-developed logistics network in the country, the company has business partners in Germany, Czech Republic, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia and in Scotland. The Voigt offer includes over 160 products for professional cleaning, including two new product lines designed for customers in the hotel and catering industry. To meet the needs of individual customers, the company also launched a retail line. Voigt builds a competitive advantage by offering clients value added in the form of maintenance services, training and audits on cleaning techniques and technologies. More information http://www.voigt.pl/ 
About IFS 
IFS™ develops and delivers enterprise software for customers around the world who manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations. The industry expertise of our people and solutions, together with commitment to our customers, has made us a recognized leader and the most recommended supplier in our sector. Our team of 3,500 employees supports more than ten thousand customers worldwide from a network of local offices and through our growing ecosystem of partners. For more information, visit: IFSworld.com 
Follow us on Twitter: @ifsworld 
Visit the IFS Blogs on technology, innovation and creativity: http://blogs.ifsworld.com About Us 
IFS™ develops and delivers enterprise software for customers around the world who manufacture and distribute goods, maintain assets, and manage service-focused operations. The industry expertise of our people and solutions, together with commitment to our customers, has made us a recognized leader and the most recommended supplier in our sector. Our team of 3,500 employees supports more than ten thousand customers worldwide from a network of local offices and through our growing ecosystem of partners. For more information, visit: IFSworld.com Follow us on Twitter: @ifsworld Visit the IFS Blog on technology, innovation and creativity: http://blog.ifsworld.com/ Contacts