Bravida strengthens its position within electricity in the region of Mälardalen Mon, Apr 16, 2018 08:30 CET 
Bravida acquires Sala elektriska and establishes a stronger position within electricity in Mälardalen – a region of strong growth. The acquired business offers services in both service and installation. 
Sala elektriska was founded in 1999 and has operations in Sala with surroundings. The company has 18 employees and a turnover of approximately SEK 20 million. 
– We see Mälardalen as a very interesting market where Bravida today is represented in electricity, HVAC and ventilation. We will strengthen our business further through the acquisition of Sala elektriska and will be able to meet customer requests in an even better way. Their operations are well-managed with competent employees who complement our current business in a good way, says Mats Axelsson, Regional Manager, Bravida region Dalarna, Västmanland, Södermanland. 
Owner is Per-Olov Östlund and he has built and operated Sala Elektriska since its inception. He will remain in the role of Branch Manager in Bravida. 
– I want to further develop the business and it will be possible with Bravida as owner. We will get both bigger and stronger together. I also see it as an opportunity to help more customers and broaden our offer through Bravidia's existing business in the region, says Per-Olov Östlund, CEO at Sala eletriska. 
Sala elektriska will be a part of Bravida as of 1 May 2018. 
For further information, please contact: Mats Axelsson, Regional Manager, Bravida region Dalarna, Västmanland, Södermanland. Phone: +46 21 15 48 45Per-Olov Östlund, CEO at Sala eletriska. Phone: +45 224 39 20 01 
Bravida är en ledande totalleverantör av service- och installationstjänster i Norden, med fler än 10 000 medarbetare. Bravida levererar såväl specialisttjänster som helhetslösningar inom el, vs, ventilation, säkerhet, kyla, sprinkler, teknisk fastighetsdrift och kraft. Bravida finns representerade på drygt 150 orter i Sverige, Norge, Danmark och Finland. www.bravida.se 
Tags: Sweden , acquisition , Electrical , bravida About Us 
Bravida is a leading multi-technical service provider in the Nordics, with more than 10,000 employees. Bravida delivers specialist services as well as complete electrical, heating and plumbing, HVAC, security, cooling, sprinklers, technical service management and power supply solutions. Bravida is represented in more then 150 locations in Sweden, Norway, Denmark and Finland. www.bravida.se/en/ Contacts