SEMCON ACQUIRES GERMAN PRODUCT INFORMATION COMPANY Mon, Apr 16, 2018 10:00 CET 
Semcon has acquired the company HAAS-Publikationen GmbH. Through the acquisition, Semcon expands its presence within product information on the German market. 
HAAS-Publikationen is based in Troisdorf, Dessau and Berlin and has more than 25 years of experience in technical documentation and product information primarily for the German railway industry. Presently, HAAS-Publikationen engages almost 50 employees. Turnover for 2017 totalled close to SEK 50 million. The acquisition is expected to have a positive effect on operating margin as well as earnings per share in 2018. 
“With the extended knowledge from multiple industries and a solid service offering, from both HAAS-Publikationen and Semcon operations globally, we will become an even stronger partner to both existing and future customers with this acquisition,” says Markus Granlund, President and CEO of Semcon. 
Semcon has been on the German market, providing customers with product information services, since 2012. With the acquisition of HAAS-Publikationen, Semcon also establishes an expanded physical presence with three new offices in addition to the current office in Munich. 
“We see this as an amazing opportunity for HAAS-Publikationen, both for our employees and for our customers. Semcon is a strong international player at the forefront of product information. We are looking forward to becoming a stronger partner for our customers in Central Europe,” says Stefan Moldenhauer, Managing Director HAAS-Publikationen and one of the sellers who will retain a managerial position. 
“Our ambition with this acquisition is to extend our ability to provide a competitive and advanced product information offering in Germany, always keeping the user’s needs in focus,” concludes Johan Ekener, President of Semcon Business Area Product Information. 
For more information, please contact: 
Johan Ekener, President of Semcon Business Area Product Information Tel: +46 736-840 683, E-mail: 
Markus Granlund, President and CEO, Semcon Tel: +46 31-721 03 06, E-mail: 
Per Nilsson, Director Corporate Communications and Marketing, SemconTel: +46 (0)739 737 200, Email: 
Semcon is an international technology company that develops products based on human needs and behaviours. We strengthen our customers’ competitiveness by always starting from the end user, because the person who knows most about the user’s needs creates the best products and the clearest benefits to humans. Semcon collaborates mainly with companies in the automotive, industry, energy and life science sectors. With more than 2,000 specialised employees, Semcon has the ability to take care of the entire product development cycle, from strategy and technology development to design and product information. Semcon was founded in Sweden in 1980 and has offices in over 30 locations in eight different countries. In 2017, the Group reported annual sales of SEK 1.8 billion. Read more on www.semcon.com 
Tags: Technology , germany , acquisition , Semcon , product information , product development , railway About Us 
Semcon is an international technology company that develops products based on human needs and behaviours. We strengthen our customers’ competitiveness by always starting from the end user, because the person who knows most about the user’s needs creates the best products and the clearest benefits to humans. Semcon collaborates mainly with companies in the automotive, industry, energy and life science sectors. With more than 2000 specialised employees, Semcon has the ability to take care of the entire product development cycle, from strategy and technology development to design and product information. Semcon was founded in Sweden in 1980 and has offices in over 30 locations in eight different countries. In 2016, the Group reported annual sales of SEK 1.8 billion. Read more on semcon.com Contacts