Peikko’s solutions chosen for a biopharmaceutical plant expansion in Austria Mon, Apr 16, 2018 11:30 CET 
Peikko’s Austrian subsidiary, Peikko Austria GmbH, has received a notable order for a biopharmaceutical production plant expansion of Boehringer Ingelheim in Vienna, Austria. The order comprises 600 pcs of PCs® Corbels and PC® Beam Shoes, 700 meters of DELTABEAM® Composite Beams, 4,000 pcs of PSB® Punching Reinforcement, and a sizeable amount of other connection items. Peikko’s deliveries will continue until October 2018, and the new production line is estimated to be operational in 2021. 
Boehringer Ingelheim is a global, research-driven pharmaceutical company founded in 1885, employing 50,000 people worldwide. The estimated investment value of the new production line is EUR 700 million, and it will create approximately 500 new jobs in Vienna. The main contractor of the project is Porr Bau GmbH, and Architekt Podsedensek ZT is responsible for the architectural design. The structural designer is AXIS Ingenieurdienstleistungen ZT GmbH, and the precast elements are supplied by Franz Oberndorfer GmbH & Co KG. 
“The fact that Peikko’s solutions were chosen for this project demonstrates that we are a versatile supplier able to meet the needs of our customers. Our DELTABEAM® enables long spans while providing a slim floor structure. PCs® Corbels, on the other hand, are cost-efficient and take higher loads than many traditional solutions. Finding the optimal solution for our customers with a wide variety of applications is our expertise”, says Topi Paananen, CEO of Peikko Group Corporation. 
Further information: Topi Paananen, CEO, Peikko Group Corporation, Tel. +358 50 384 3001, email: 
Reinhard Ertl, Managing Director, Peikko Austria GmbH, Tel. +43 664 341 8475, email: 
Distribution: Main media, Peikko websites 
Peikko Group in brief: Peikko Group Corporation is a leading global supplier of slim floor structures and connection technology for precast and cast-in-situ applications. Peikko’s innovative solutions offer a faster, safer and more efficient way to design and build. Peikko has subsidiaries in 30 countries in Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and North America, with certified manufacturing operations in 7 countries. Peikko’s turnover in 2017 was EUR 188 million. Peikko is a family-owned and run company that employs over 1,600 professionals. Peikko was founded in 1965 and is headquartered in Lahti, Finland. Further information: www.peikko.com . Peikko Group Corporation is a leading global supplier of slim floor structures and connection technology for precast and cast-in-situ applications. Peikko’s innovative solutions offer a faster, safer, and more efficient way to design and build. Peikko has subsidiaries in 30 countries in Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and North America, with certified manufacturing operations in 7 countries. Peikko’s turnover in 2017 was EUR 188 million. Peikko is a family-owned and run company that employs over 1,600 professionals. Peikko was founded in 1965 and is headquartered in Lahti, Finland. Further information: www.peikko.com. About Us 
Peikko Group Corporation is a leading global supplier of slim floor structures and connection technology for precast and cast-in-situ applications. Peikko’s innovative solutions offer a faster, safer, and more efficient way to design and build. Peikko has subsidiaries in 30 countries in Asia-Pacific, Europe, the Middle East, and North America, with certified manufacturing operations in 7 countries. Peikko’s turnover in 2017 was EUR 188 million. Peikko is a family-owned and run company that employs over 1,600 professionals. Peikko was founded in 1965 and is headquartered in Lahti, Finland. Further information: www.peikko.com . Contacts