Caverion provides Managed Services for a university building in Germany Mon, Apr 16, 2018 13:00 CET 
Caverion Corporation Investor news 16 April 2018 at 2.00 p.m. EEST 
Caverion provides Managed Services for a university building in Germany 
Caverion has signed a Managed Services contract with the Technical University (TU) of Ilmenau in Germany. The scope of the contract includes the disciplines of heating, cooling, air conditioning and sanitation in nine university buildings, including two technology centres with clean rooms. In addition, Caverion is responsible for the operation of elevators and doors as well as the fire alarm system. The value of the contract is not disclosed. 
“Our competent team is the key to success. They will provide a high-quality service to the students and the teaching staff. Their commitment will ensure an optimum learning environment,” says Werner Kühn , Executive Vice President & CEO at Caverion Germany. 
“The management concept of Caverion, which is tailored to our specific needs in every detail, has convinced us,” says Antje Kalbe , Head of Facility Management at the TU Ilmenau. “We are looking forward to a successful cooperation.” 
The TU Ilmenau has about 6,000 registered students. The gross floor area of the buildings included in the scope of services covers approximately 43,000 m2. 
The contract period started in April 2018. 
The client belongs to Caverion’s public client segment. Read more about our services for the public sector 
For additional information, please contact: Beate Bredl, Communications Manager, Caverion Germany, tel. +49 173 2612827, 
Caverion provides smart technical solutions and services for buildings, industrial processes and infrastructure. Our unique service offering covers the entire life cycle: design, build and maintenance. Our vision is to be the first choice in digitalising environments for customers, employees, partners and investors. Our revenue in 2017 was approximately EUR 2.3 billion. Caverion has about 16,000 employees in 12 countries in Northern, Central and Eastern Europe. Caverion’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. www.caverion.com Twitter: @CaverionGroup About Us 
Caverion provides smart technical solutions and services for buildings, industrial processes and infrastructure. Our unique service offering covers the entire life cycle: design, build and maintenance. Our vision is to be the first choice in digitalising environments for customers, employees, partners and investors. Our revenue in 2017 was approximately EUR 2.3 billion. Caverion has about 16,000 employees in 12 countries in Northern, Central and Eastern Europe. Caverion’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Helsinki. www.caverion.com Twitter: @CaverionGroup Subscribe