Man hit by sound waves in new ad by Klarna Mon, Apr 16, 2018 14:40 CET 
Stockholm, 16th April 2018: Klarna’s mission is to make e-payments as simple, safe, and above all, as ‘smoooth’ as possible. In 2016, Klarna joined forces with advertising agency NORD DDB to initiate what later became a viral success. Through a series of videos the two have managed to transform the identity of Klarna from a traditional, yet innovative, fintech company to a quirky lifestyle brand with services as ‘smoooth’ as a fish slipping down a slippery slide. Now, Klarna is back with another video, “Smoooth Bass”, featuring a man whose belly wobbles to sound waves. 
– Since inception, our vision has been to make online payments easier, safer and more fun. Talking about a smoooth solution is not always very interesting, but through playful communication we believe we can illustrate what it means and thereby change attitudes and create a bigger interest for our products, says David Sandström, CMO, Klarna. 
Behind the ‘Smoooth concept’ is advertising agency NORD DDB, who has worked intensely in trying to differentiate Klarna from the rest of the financial industry by creating a playful identity. Previous videos have been immensely popular around the world and been shared by comedy sites such as Unilad, 9gag and Mashable. Surely no one missed last years dreamy afghan hound-like creature swimming in slow motion underwater. 
– I guess you could say that we’re still exploring the feeling of ‘Smoooth’ by trying to push the concept through the viewers screen and into their body and soul. This time we’re exploring the connection between skin and sound, says Martin Lundgren, creative, NORD DDB. 
The new video was published on YouTube on Friday, April 13, and now has more than 1.3 million views. 
Watch the new Klarna commercial, Smoooth Bass, here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2qEe-QqWusk 
Find the previous videos that have reaped international success here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6i5Rhm7-bpA 
Credit list 
Product & Brand Marketing Manager: Martina Brynielsson B2C & Brand Marketing Manager: Jasmine RiahiSenior Visual designer: Camilla BirkströmDirector Marketing: Martin WassbornChief Marketing Officer: David SandströmDirector Marketing Nordics: Christian CabauMarketing Manager: Emelie Karlsson