Italy and Austria win regional Top Team final 16 April 2018 Service technicians 
Ten Scania service teams gathered in Trento, Italy, this weekend for the first Scania Top Team 2017-2018 regional final. Their performance did not disappoint. But it was the Italian and Austrian teams who outshone the rest in the end. 
Renaissance fountains, medieval frescoes and outdoor pursuits such as hiking, skiing and cycling… Trento has much to offer. But this weekend, this town guarded by the dramatic peaks of the Brenta Dolomites became the setting for quite a different kind of activity: an opportunity for Scania’s service staff to demonstrate how they are driving the shift towards a sustainable transport system and show what they are really made of. 
The event brought together service technicians and parts experts from Scania’s workshops in Hungary, Turkey, Germany, Austria, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Sweden, Italy, Ireland, Ukraine: all talented, all knowledgeable, all highly professional. They had to be; after all, a record total of 8,000 contestants from 70 countries entered this latest competition. 
“It was a close race with tough competition between all teams,” says Harald Cederberg, head of the Top Team jury. “All teams were competing at top level and had prepared immensely before coming here. The level of ambition was impressive. It just shows how professional and committed our service technicians really are.” 
So, what made the winning teams stand out and outperform the others in the first European final? The team representing Austria for the fourth time in a Top Team regional final claims the key to their success is their tight teamwork and respect for one another. While the Austrian team could rely on past experience, this was the first time the Italians competed at an international level. The team have practiced and prepared for the challenge for over four months, meeting after work and on weekends. 
Having made it this far, the teams from Italy and Austria will go on to the Top Team world final in December, where they will face 10 other qualifying teams in Södertälje, Sweden. The reward? The No. 1 title – the ultimate honour for any service team – and EUR 50,000 in cash. 
This coming weekend promises to be just as exciting for Scania service staff – and Trento equally significant. On 20-22 April, the next round of Regional finals will be held in this northern Italian town, where 10 more European teams’ talents will be assessed. Watch this space. Images