  09:40 
About Trustly: 
At Trustly, we’re passionate about simplifying the way people pay and get paid online. We are a licensed payment institution and our B2B products available in 29 European countries attract global merchants in segments such as e­-commerce, travel, financial services and gaming. In 2017, we processed 44% of our total payment volume since our founding in 2008, which is a testament to our fast growth, and today we process nearly 4 million monthly transactions. 
Trustly is a licensed payment institution under supervision of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finansinspektionen). We are a diverse and fast-growing team of 200+ people with our headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, and regional offices in Spain, Malta, Germany and the UK. Together we are leading the development of the payments industry and the work you’ll do here will make a great impact. 
About Legal at Trustly: 
The Legal team is based in Stockholm and is a tight-knit group of 5 full-time employees. Together we work to establish Trustly as a professional and trustworthy partner in the payments industry. We focus on facilitating growth while not compromising on legal and regulatory requirements. We support Trustly in its journey in various ways and work especially close with the Commercial and Product teams as well as rest of the organization. 
About the role: 
You will provide legal services to the organization in various matters, mainly focusing on payment services, data privacy and financial regulatory requirements, as well as general contract law. You will support the Commercial team in drafting contract and negotiations; analyze new business opportunities; advise the Product team on development of new products and features; and hold internal workshops related to various legal matters. The majority of our projects have an international reach and thus you will cooperate closely with Trustly colleagues outside Sweden. You will manage projects independently on a cross-border basis and coordinate with local councils, authorities and partners on a regular basis. 
Who you are: 
To be successful in this role, you have a law degree (jur kand. or equivalent) and at least 3 years of work experience from a reputable law firm. Experience related to payment services, financial regulatory requirements, complex commercial agreements, consumer protection and personal privacy data is highly valued. You have a genuine interest in business development and modern technology, always striving to achieve optimal solutions. You share our entrepreneurial values, hard-working attitude and ambition to create value in everything you do. As we are an international company, oral and written fluency in English and Swedish is necessary. German is considered a plus! In order to ensure smooth communication and collaboration with the team as well as other Trustly teams and external partners, you are likely a social person by nature. With a positive and humble attitude, you are a loyal team player with a high degree of personal judgement. 
What we offer: 
A commitment to constant improvement. You can expect to grow on both a professional and personal level in a stimulating environment. Inspiring teamwork in a business that extends across borders. The opportunity to work with leading professionals in an open, challenging and truly inspiring atmosphere. The chance to take part in an exciting journey as the company grows and expands its business in rapid pace. A fun and friendly workplace that values work-life balance. 
Apply now - more information and application HERE ! Platsannons