Coinbase To Boost Toshi Dapp By Taking Features From Recently Acquired Cipher Browser 
By Coinbase has recently acquired Cipher Browser, a wallet based on Ethereum (ETH) Blockchain, and decentralized app (Dapp) developer, to improve its own similar project Toshi Ethereum network browser, according to a Coinbase tweet on Friday, April 13. We’re excited to welcome @CipherBrowser to Coinbase! https://t.co/CIqK0EtDbb 
— Coinbase (@coinbase) April 13, 2018 
According to a tweet from Cipher Browser, the move will allow Coinbase to integrate Cipher Browser’s features into its own decentralized mobile browser Toshi. Toshi Dapp was announced in April 2017 as an Ethereum wallet, private messaging app, and a browser of Ethereum apps. Peter Kim, the creator of Cipher Browser, will become the head of engineering at Toshi and integrate certain Cipher features into the Toshi browser of Coinbase. Exciting news! @CipherBrowser is joining @Coinbase ! @petejkim will become head of engineering for @Toshi and we’ll be merging many features of Cipher into Toshi. 
We’re committed to building the best Web 3 experience on mobile. 
We can’t wait for what we can all build together! pic.twitter.com/2XuuPqD6fp 
— Cipher Browser for Ethereum (@CipherBrowser) April 13, 2018 
Cipher Browser said that Test Networks (Testnets) will be one of the first features to be integrated into the Toshi browser. Testnets are software that are identical to the software used by a cryptocurrency. They are built to test new ideas without disturbing or breaking the main cryptocurrency software, allowing developers to experiment with their apps without using real coins. Coinbase’s announcement provoked a strong reaction from the crypto community on Twitter, which is outraged that the trading platform is developing ETH browser optimization instead of offering Ripple (XRP) cryptocurrency support. Until you add xrp no one cares 
— Alan Murray (@AlanMur54523693) April 13, 2018 @coinbase and @AsiffHirji are always excited about shitty announcements… you have almost 1 million followers on this page, only 500 likes on this shitty post.. don’t you realize that we don’t give a sh** until you add #XRP ? 
— Idriss Nasri (@DnbMedi) April 14, 2018 
Earlier this week, Ripple Foundation’s chief market strategist Corey Johnson said that XRP is not a security, allaying suspicion that XRP was not added to Coinbase due to questions of its status. “Coinbase never ever raised the issue of whether or not XRP is a security in our discussion about listing XRP. We’re 100 percent clear, it’s not a security. We don’t meet the standards.” 