The 2018 Spring Budget in five minutes Building our society – a secure and sustainable Sweden 
On 16 April the Government will present to the Riksdag its Spring Fiscal Policy Bill and proposed amendments to this year's budget. In the Spring Fiscal Policy Bill, the Government presents its economic assessment and the direction of fiscal policy ahead of the budget for 2019. The spring amending budget presents the Government's proposed amendments to this year's budget. 
The Spring Fiscal Policy Bill and the proposals in the spring amending budget are based on an agreement between the government parties and the Left Party. 
"We expect to see increasing needs in the welfare system in the coming years, as we are living longer and more children are being born. This will be the major task of the next electoral period. That is why the Government is giving higher priority to investments in increased security for a Sweden that stands together than to major tax cuts for the richest," says Ms Andersson. Sweden's economy is strong The growth rate of the Swedish economy remains stable and will be almost 3 per cent this year. The employment rate in Sweden is now the highest in more than 25 years and is the highest ever measured by Eurostat. Unemployment is falling and is expected to be around 6 per cent next year. Public finances are strong, with a surplus throughout this entire electoral period. Sweden's national debt as a percentage of GDP has fallen by 10 percentage points during this electoral period to its lowest level since 1977. 
Key indicators forecast April 2018, excel More investment for a secure and sustainable Sweden 
In the spring amending budget, the Government presents investments in jobs, the climate, welfare and security, which will be carried out this year. 
"We have taken Sweden in a new direction. Investments in jobs, health care, schools and the climate have borne fruit. The Government is now making additional investments for a secure and sustainable Sweden," says Ms Andersson. Measures spring amending budget Sweden will be a fossil-free welfare nation 500 Welfare system will be strenghtened 1 500 
Proposals in the Government Bill: Spring Amending Budget for 2018, excel Reforms and results during this electoral period Some 250 000 more people have a job to go to today and more than 100 000 of these work in the welfare sector. Quicker path for newly arrived immigrants to find work – the proportion who have a job after two years has increased by 60 per cent compared to the average over the past 15 years. The proportion of the population in the compensation and insurance systems has fallen and is at its lowest level since 1981. The number of people employed in the welfare sector has increased – from 128 employees per 1 000 inhabitants in 2014 to 135 employees per 1 000 inhabitants in 2018. The environment budget has more than doubled and subsidies for solar cells have increased twentyfold. Emissions are falling, especially in the transport sector. The general government deficit has been turned into a surplus. During this electoral period, a deficit of around SEK 60 billion in 2014 has become a surplus of around SEK 50 billion for the years 2016–2018. Sweden's national debt as a percentage of GDP has fallen by 10 percentage points during this electoral period to its lowest level since 1977. An additional 28 000 people are employed in schools today, compared to the 2014–2015 academic year. Overall policy during this electoral period has countered economic inequality. Passage through the Riksdag 
After the Spring Fiscal Policy Bill and the spring amending budget have been presented to the Riksdag, the members of the Riksdag have two weeks to present motions in response to the Bill, with alternative proposals. Proposed guidelines for economic policy and budget policy included in the Spring Fiscal Policy Bill are processed by the Committee on Finance. The proposed amending budget, including changes in appropriation frames, revenue estimates and any legislative proposals, is also processed by the Committee on Finance. The Riksdag will take a decision on the budget bills in June, preliminarily on 15 June 2018. Shortcuts