Senzime’s Annual Report 2017 Tue, Apr 17, 2018 11:00 CET 
Press Release: Uppsala, April 17, 2018. Senzime AB’s (publ) annual report for fiscal year 2017 (only in Swedish) is now available on the company’s webbsite www.senzime.com . 
For further information, please contact: 
Jessica Roxhed, CFO 
Tel: +46 703-94 94 98, e-mail: 
Certified Adviser 
FNCA is Certified Adviser for Senzime. 
TO THE EDITORS 
About Senzime 
Senzime develops unique patient-oriented monitoring systems that make it possible to assess patients' biochemical and physiological processes before, during and after surgery. The portfolio of technologies includes bedside systems that enable automated and continuous monitoring of life-critical substances such as glucose and lactate in both blood and tissues, as well as systems to monitor patients’ neuromuscular function perioperatively and in the intensive care medicine setting. The solutions are designed to ensure maximum patient benefit, reduce complications associated with surgery and anesthesia, and decrease health care costs. Senzime operates in growing markets that in Europe and the United States are valued in excess of SEK 10 billion. The company's shares are listed on Nasdaq First North (ticker SEZI). www.senzime.com 
Tags: Senzime About Us 
Senzime develops unique patient-oriented monitoring systems that make it possible to assess patients' biochemical and physiological processes before, during and after surgery. The portfolio of technologies includes bedside systems that enable automated and continuous monitoring of life-critical substances such as glucose and lactate in both blood and tissues, as well as systems to monitor patients’ neuromuscular function perioperatively and in the intensive care medicine setting. The solutions are designed to ensure maximum patient benefit, reduce complications associated with surgery and anesthesia, and decrease health care costs. Senzime operates in growing markets that in Europe and the United States are valued in excess of SEK 10 billion. The company's shares are listed on Nasdaq First North (ticker SEZI). FNCA is Certified Adviser for Senzime. www.senzime.com Contacts