AIAR’s Latest Board Member: Internationally Recognized Technology Lawyer Tue, Apr 17, 2018 10:04 CET 
Hailing all the way from Australia, Irina Heaver has been based in Dubai for 10 years and is a globally well-known player within the tech industry. Her specialization is within emerging ABC-technologies including AI, Blockchain and Cryptocurrency – the three corner stones that make up AIAR’s learning system. 

- We are incredibly happy and proud to have Irina Heaver as our new Board Member. With her international background and unique competencies she will have a crucial role when we launch the global ecosystem of learning. Heaver’s great interest in the company is yet another proof that people all over the world are talking about us and that we are on the right way in terms of vision and strategy to reach our goal,” says Rufus Lidman , CEO and Founder of AIAR . 
Irina Heaver’s passion lies in helping innovative tech companies to go from idea to reality. Thanks to her 15+ years of representing major corporations in the heavy industrial sector (she negotiated and closed on the largest deal in the EPC oil industry worth over 11 billion USD), she is a globally sought after advisor on corporate, commercial and funding matters. 
- I couldn’t be more thrilled to work together with the AIAR team. It is one of the most exciting businesses I have seen in a long time. As part of the board of directors, I believe my experience from the innovative tech scene and the ICO world, will be a perfect match. “There are over 65 million displaced people in the world. Almost 50% of them are children under the age of 18, who are struggling to get access to education. It’s time that education is made accessible to them and to every other person lusting for knowledge. The time to change this world with education is now. I am truly excited to be part of the team who are actually doing some tangible good for this world in a holistic and profitable way, that has not been done before,” says Irina Heaver , AIAR’s latest Board Member. 
With a Juris Doctor Degree in her backbone, Irina Heaver is currently representing multiple blockchain based enterprises in their ICO efforts. Moreover, she advises Regional Regulators on policies and regulations regarding blockchain and crypto assets. 
AIAR will in connection to all this open a Regional hub in Dubai, United Arab Emirates. 
- The decision was made during a long dinner by the Arabian Gulf. Brain-picking and soul-mating were combined with big questions not only regarding the gigantic business potential but even more on the good we want to happen in this world and how the blockchain will help us achieving it,” concludes Rufus Lindman , CEO and Founder of AIAR. 

Rufus Lidman – CEO | | +46 733 90 18 80 
Thérèse Lundquist – CMO | | + 46 76 000 08 04 
Eriksbergsgatan 10, 114 30, 
https://www.aiar.com/ 

AIAR is democratizing education for the 2.5 billion people in need worldwide. By using new technology to innovate totally new processes, instead of repairing old ones, AIAR is providing the world’s first mobile ecosystem for lifelong learning with 360° content scope. 
Tags: education , Dubai , digital , ar , ICO , ecosystem , AI , Rufus Lidman , edtech , blockchain , AIAR , Irina Heaver , Blocklearning , utilitytokens About Us 
AIAR revolutionerar sättet folk lär sig och utvecklar kompetens genom en unik EdTech-plattform som använder AI för att personalisera utbildningsprocessen och innovativ AR-teknologi för att lära ut kunskap just-in-time. Genom AIAR:s ledande microlearning-approach demokratiseras inlärningsprocessen fullkomligt och blir tillgänglig för alla, oavsett tid och rum, till ett lågt (eller inget alls) pris. Denna gamechanging approach skapar en stark disruption inom traditionell utbildning och säkerställer AIAR:s branschdominans över åtminstone 1/10 av den globala digital learning-marknaden år 2022. AIAR:s första microlearning-app är Digital Marketing Pro (DMP), som på rekordtid blivit världens näst mest nedladdade inom sin kategori. Nu förbereder sig bolaget för att ta sig an Google om den globala förstapositionen. Med en inriktning på digital marknadsföringsstrategi såär DMP en försmak av AIAR:s 3T-metod (bestående utav Tutorials, Tests & Tools) skräddarsytt för just personaliserad inlärning. Med ledande datadrivna insights och en revolutionerande EdTech-plattform visar AIAR vägen för nästa generation av digitala hjältar… daring to change the world. Subscribe