Hedin Bil continues to expand its Ford business as Motorcentralen i Eskilstuna is acquired Tue, Apr 17, 2018 14:15 CET 
This marks Hedin Bil’s 98th dealership and sales are expected to increase with approx. 400 cars yearly. 
Gothenburg, April 17, 2018 
I.A. Hedin Bil continues to expand in Sweden as 100 % of the shares in Motorcentralen i Eskilstuna AB is acquired. Expected entry is 1st of May 2018. This acquisition only includes the passenger and transportation business for Ford meaning that Hedin Bil increases the Ford offering within the Group. The estimated turnover for Motorcentralen i Eskilstuna AB is around 100 million SEK with an average of 400 sold cars yearly. The acquisition concern 20 employees. Anders Hedin owner and CEO of Anders Hedin Invest, says “I am very happy that we have been given the possibility to acquire Motorcentralen i Eskilstuna and to increase our Ford business within our Group”.“We have been interested in expanding our business in this particular area for some time now. Eskilstuna and the surrounding vicinity is growing and for us it is a strategic good location with the proximity to our dealerships in Södertälje and Segelstorp” says Anderz Larqvist, CEO for Hedin Mölndal Bil AB. This acquisition means Hedin Bil will soon have six dealerships dedicated Ford. Aktiebolaget I.A. Hedin Bil (publ) 
For further information, please contact CEO: Anders Hedin, Press: Emma Andersson, +46 707 936 053; emma.andersson@andershedininvest.se 
I.A. Hedin Bil is one of the largest privately owned automotive retailers in the Nordics, with 30 brands in the portfolio, offering full service for private and corporate customers. Financing, service and insurance are some of the components of the total offer. Hedin Bil is represented in more than 90 locations in Sweden, Norway and Belgium. Sales in 2017 amounted to 12.7 bn SEK and there were more than 2,700 employees in the business. www.hedinbil.se ® I.A. Hedin Bil is a registered trademark owned by the Anders Hedin Invest Group (91 %) and Ingemar Hedin (9 %). 
Tags: