Planmeca Emerald™ intraoral scanner now accepted by Ortoplus Group Tue, Apr 17, 2018 14:13 CET 
Planmeca is pleased to announce that the Planmeca Emerald™ intraoral scanner can now be used to produce OrthoApnea mandibular advancement devices and Alineadent clear aligners, both designed and manufactured by Ortoplus Group. 
Ortoplus is one of the largest orthodontic and digital laboratories in Europe. The company has manufactured more than 350 000 orthodontic appliances in its 25 years of existence and is present in over 45 countries. 
The Planmeca Emerald™ intraoral scanner has now been accepted by Ortoplus, which means that after scanning the upper and lower arches as well as the bite of the patient, Planmeca Emerald users can instantly export the scans to Ortoplus for the designing and manufacturing of the desired orthodontic appliances. 
“We are very happy about this new partnership that will bring Ortoplus’s wide range of orthodontic solutions within the reach of Planmeca Emerald users. It’s all about making the orthodontic workflow as smooth as possible. By using our digital intraoral scanner and simply sending the open STL files to the Ortoplus headquarters, a lot of valuable time can be saved, not to mention that patients will enjoy the speed and comfort of digital scanning”, says Ville Salonen , Manager for Planmeca’s Orthodontic Product Line and Business Development. 
“We tested and evaluated the Planmeca Emerald intraoral scanner by taking impressions. I have to say that we were impressed by the ease of use, high resolution and quick results, and especially by its precision. This solution allows for a 100% digital manufacturing process. This in turn means more efficient and more accurate treatments, as well as shorter delivery times. It is for sure one of the best intraoral scanners on the market!” says Ana Fernández , R&D Director of Ortoplus Group. 
For more information, please contact: Ville SalonenProduct Line and Business Development Manager, Orthodontics Digital Imaging and Applications division, Planmeca OyTel. + 358 20 7795 843Email: 
Planmeca Oy and Planmeca Group Planmeca Oy is one of the world's leading dental equipment manufacturers with a product range covering digital dental units, CAD/CAM solutions, world-class 2D and 3D imaging devices and comprehensive software solutions. Headquartered in Helsinki, Finland, Planmeca’s products are distributed in over 120 countries worldwide. With a strong commitment to pioneering innovations and design, it is the largest privately held company in its field. Planmeca Oy is part of the Finnish Planmeca Group, which operates in the field of health care technology. www.planmeca.com 
Ortoplus Group With a catalogue of over 800 products, Ortoplus Group is the largest orthodontic laboratory in Spain. Its more than 25 years of experience in the field make it one of the strongest laboratories in the dental sector both at a national and international level. The company manufactures Orthoapnea mandibular advancement devices and Alineadent clear aligners. www.ortoplus.com About Us 
Better care through innovationPlanmeca Group is one of the leaders in health care technology. We are dedicated to better patient care through groundbreaking health care solutions that improve the daily workflow of dental and medical professionals around the world. We manufacture and supply high-technology dental care equipment, CAD/CAM solutions, medical and dental 2D and 3D imaging devices and software, mammography systems, instruments, as well as dental supplies and services.Planmeca Group operates in over 120 countries, employing 2,700 people worldwide. Our headquarters and production facilities are located in Helsinki, Finland, where we design and manufacture our world-leading solutions, all under one roof. Over 98% of our products are exported around the world. The Group's turnover in 2014 was MEUR 740. Contacts