Axel Johnson International acquires Dock Equipment range from Pommier Tue, Apr 17, 2018 14:00 CET 
Forankra France, part of Axel Johnson International Transport Solutions business group, has acquired the Dock Equipment product range from Pommier SA 1 April through an asset acquisition. The products are mainly aimed for logistics hubs, warehouses, trucks and trailers and include the patented Butdock® product. 
“This product range is a strategic addition to our existing dock equipment range and allows us to strengthen our product and service offer across Europe,” says Erik Eklöv, Managing Director of Transport Solutions. “Our own R&D development will also play an important role in developing these products further.” 
Established in 1945, Pommier is a recognised producer and provider of bodywork components in the market for industrial vehicle equipment. The company and its brands are known for quality and reliability, driven by significant investments in R&D. 
“By selling this part of the business to a reputable company like Forankra, I know that our customers will be treated with care and seriousness,” says Jean-Patrick Sauvy, CEO of Pommier. 
The Transport Solutions business group comprises leading European providers of cargo securing solutions and vehicle components. It includes ABKATI, Eigenbrodt, Sternhammar, Trailerkomponenter, TMT. Malinen, Widni, Verne, Forankra group and allsafe, with total sales of EUR 150 million in 2017. 

For further information, please contact: 
Hans Glemstedt, Head of Strategy and M&A, Axel Johnson International, +46 (0)8 453 77 41, hans.glemstedt@axinter.com 
Erik Eklöv, Managing Director of Transport Solutions, Axel Johnson International, +46 (0)70 202 939, erik.eklov@axinter.com 
Virginie Guillot, Marketing Manager of ACK Forankra, +33 (0)4 72 45 07 24, virginie.guillot@forankra.fr 

Head of Communication / Project Manager Strategy and M&A viktor.skargren@axinter.com 

Axel Johnson International is a privately owned Swedish industrial group of more than 100 companies in 25 countries, with combined annual sales of EUR 790 million. We drive business development and growth through a long-term approach to ownership in strategic niche markets, primarily technical components and solutions for industrial processes. Axel Johnson International is organised in four business groups: Fluid Handling Solutions, Industrial Solutions, Lifting Solutions and Transport Solutions. 
www.axinter.com 
About Us 
Axel Johnson International is a privately owned Swedish industrial group of more than 100 companies in 25 countries, with combined annual sales of EUR 790 million. We drive business development and growth through a long-term approach to ownership in strategic niche markets, primarily technical components and solutions for industrial processes. Axel Johnson International is organised in four business groups: Fluid Handling Solutions, Industrial Solutions, Lifting Solutions and Transport Solutions. www.axinter.com Contacts 
Head of Communication / Project Manager Strategy and M&A Sveavägen 151, 5th floor, SE-113 46, Stockholm, Sweden