Press Room Innovation and sustainable development the focus of Indian official visit India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Sweden on 16–17 April. India is currently the world’s fastest growing major economy, and the Swedish Government is working to strengthen Sweden's role as a key partner in the areas of sustainability and innovation. Prime Minister Stefan Löfven receives India's Prime Minister Narendra Modi at Arlanda Airport. Photo: Sören Andersson/Government Offices Prime Minister Stefan Löfven and Prime Minister Narendra Modi outside Rosenbad. Foto: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices. Prime Ministers Löfven, India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg met Swedish business leaders at round-table discussions at Stockholm City Hall. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Governemnt Offices India’s Prime Minister Narendra Modi is visiting Sweden on 16–17 April. Photo: Ninni Andersson/Government offices Prime Ministers from the Nordic countries and India at the Nordic–Indian summit. Foto: Ninni Andersson/Government Offices. 
Global economic growth is predominantly happening in Asia, not least in India. Swedish companies have a significant presence in India, and Indian companies are making substantial investments in Sweden. Increased trade and investment between the two countries creates more jobs and higher growth. 
Areas of expertise including the environment, renewable energy, health, research and innovation are at the heart of the discussions on Sweden and India’s continued bilateral cooperation. 
During the official visit, Prime Ministers Stefan Löfven and Narendra Modi will hold talks at Sager House and Rosenbad. At 13.20 they will each make a statement on the discussions in the entrance to Rosenbad. 
Prime Ministers Löfven and Modi and Minister for Enterprise and Innovation Mikael Damberg will meet Swedish business leaders at round-table discussions at Stockholm City Hall. There will be an outdoor photo opportunity on Tuesday 17 April from 13.15, as the participants arrive. It will then be possible to take photographs indoors during the introductory talks, and a group photograph will be offered at the close. 
The official visit also includes an India-Nordic Summit, during which Prime Ministers Löfven and Modi will host a dinner at Grand Hôtel in Stockholm attended by the Prime Ministers of all the Nordic countries. On Tuesday 17 April from 16.45 there will be an opportunity to take group photographs of the Prime Ministers at the India-Nordic Summit. 
On the evening of 17 April, Prime Ministers Löfven and Modi will visit Stockholm University, where Mr Modi will give a speech in Hindi to the Indian diaspora. Shortcuts