Inns Near Music Festivals in California Tue, Mar 27, 2018 17:00 CET 
SACRAMENTO, CA [March 27, 2018]--Festival season is just about to get underway and California inns have your ticket for a prime place to stay. There’s no need to pitch a tent or wait in lines for portable toilets when you can bask in comfort and luxury at the end of a fun-filled day in the sun. The California Association of Boutique & Breakfast Inns (CABBI) has compiled a list of inns near major music festivals in California. 
In addition to showcasing the biggest names in indie rock, alternative rock, hip hop, and electronica, the Outside Lands Music and Arts Festival (August 10-12), is also a famed Bay Area celebration of food, wine, beer, art, comedy, and eco-friendly living. The festival creates a lively atmosphere perfectly paired with the warm elegance of the Inn San Francisco . While close to public transportation for easy access to Golden Gate Park, this 19th-century Italianate Victorian mansion offers a unique juxtaposition of old and new, with a generous breakfast buffet, antiques, fresh flowers, sundeck, hot tub, and high-definition TVs. For those whose musical tastes lean in other directions, the cultural melting pot of San Francisco also offers the Hardly Strictly Bluegrass Concert (October 5-7) and the Latin American/Caribbean-themed Carnaval Parade and Street Fair (May 5-6). 
The Monterey Peninsula is home to an eclectic mix of iconic events to satisfy a range of tastes--from classical music, to classic cars, to classic jazz—and a stay at the stately oceanfront Seven Gables Inn is the ideal way to maximize the indulgence. Whether they’re attending the revered Carmel Bach Festival (July 14-28), the venerable Concour d’Elegance/Monterey Car Week (August 18-26), or the urbane Monterey Jazz Festival (September 21-23), guests will find the inn a centrally-situated respite after each day’s festivities. From every room in this boutique hotel, generous windows frame views of waves pounding the Pacific coast, sea otters frolicking, whales spouting in the distance, or the surrounding mountains glowing orange in the sunset. 
The Coachella Valley is home to some of the world’s most popular festivals. Coachella (April 13-22), the region’s namesake music and arts festival, has set trends and broken records by showcasing wildly popular performers, emerging artists, and highly anticipated musical reunions in a diversity of genres. A fitting backdrop to the hip musical vibe and bohemian fashion of Coachella, El Morocco Inn & Spa offers the opportunity to decompress after the day’s mayhem, or to rest up in preparation. With its Moroccan ambiance, hot-springs-warmed courtyard pool, and decadent spa treatments, the inn is the epitome of a desert oasis. El Morocco even offers day use of its thermal waters and spa treatments, for those brave enough to camp at the festival. 
Earning its emerging reputation as the festival capital of the world, the Coachella Valley also hosts several sought-after annual events that rival Coachella in popularity. White Party Palm Springs (April 27-30), Club Skirts Dinah Shore Weekend (March 28 - April 1), and Stagecoach (April 27-29) offer festivities that are slightly more niche but just as popular. In the historic Palm Springs Movie Colony District, the Los Arboles Hotel has 21 charming rooms featuring Talavera Mexican tiled baths and Jacuzzi tubs with views of the San Jacinto mountains. This year, for stays through April 30th, the Los Arboles is offering a $29 music festival add-on package that includes sunscreen, a water bottle, beverage insulator, and other hotel-branded outdoor festival essentials. 
Now in its 31st year, the Mendocino Music Festival (July 7-21) brings musicians from all over the world to Mendocino’s breathtaking headlands on the edge of the Pacific Ocean. The festival features over two dozen concerts, from blues to bluegrass, symphonies to opera, and jazz to Celtic and African, packed into two weeks in July. In the heart of Mendocino village, Headlands Inn Bed and Breakfast is a distinctive B&B located just a short stroll to the festival tents. The B&B is also within walking distance of Mendocino’s unique shops, fine galleries, superb restaurants, and the ocean. The inn caters to festival goers with personalized service, charming accommodations, and tantalizing breakfasts delivered to the guests’ room. Guests who mention CABBI when making a reservation will receive a complimentary bottle of wine. 
Just down the road from the village crowds, Brewery Gulch Inn welcomes Mendocino Music Festival goers with its “Music at the Edge of the World” special. Make a reservation by March 31st to spend two or more mid-week nights during the festival, mention “Music at the Edge” when booking, and receive two tickets to one festival performance each day. Overlooking the Mendocino coast, the elegant, contemporary inn--built of eco-salvaged redwood--rises from a bluff with spectacular windows framing postcard views of the pines and the surf beyond. Festival goers can bask in a cocoon of comfort and enjoy complimentary breakfasts and light dinners featuring locally-sourced, organic cuisine. 
For more information on these and other CABBI inns, visit www.cabbi.com . 
### 
Media Contact: Ranee Ruble, or 503-788-3938