TMG’S CHANNELZERO APPOINTS DYNAMIC CREATIVE, BENJAMIN CROFT, AS CREATIVE DIRECTOR Tue, Apr 17, 2018 16:03 CET 
Croft joins executive team growing creative agency for 2018 and beyond 
TMG agency, ChannelZero today announces the appointment of Ben Croft as the agency’s new Creative Director completing Channelzero’s leading executive team line up (he joins Mikey Taylor, CEO, Franky Callanan, ECD and Belinda Wearne who was appointed General Manager in October 2017). 
Ben returns to Channelzero, having spent the last three years as Senior Art Director at Studio Woo. He has led teams on high-end accounts including Running Bare, Oxford, Jag, Sheike, Paspaley, GPT, Nikon and Mirvac. Ben has previously worked at Channelzero, as contracted Creative Director and notably worked on VS for Men. Ben returns to further escalate the agency’s profile and caliber of its work for its portfolio of clients, taking brands to new heights in 2018, and beyond. 
Channelzero’s CEO, Mikey Taylor says of the new appointment: 
“Ben has continued to master his craft and grow his experience over recent years and we are delighted to have brought him back to Channelzero. His skills in art direction, design, branding and photography will catapult Channelzero to the next level which is our focus for 2018.” 
Commenting on his appointment, Ben Croft says: “There is something about Channelzero that keeps bringing me back. It’s not like any other agency. It has its own rhythm and unique approach to its people, the work and its clients.” 
ECD, Franky Callanan says of Croft joining the ranks; 
“Ben brings a true art and creative finesse to the table. His skill and experience will complement our existing team. I honestly cannot wait to see what’s to come over the following months.” 
Channelzero is a full-service agency, based in Sydney’s leafy district of St Leonards. The Agency is the Australian offering under the global marketing network, TMG (The Marketing Group plc). Channelzero’s clients include Speedo, Nestle, Sanitarium, Rio Tinto and Sydney Water. 
Media contact for ChannelZero Media contact for TMG plc 
Sarah Carpenter Lydia Oakes 
M / 0402 039 108 Phone: +44 (0) 7710 244573 
P / 02 9818 8800 Email: lydia@bluestripemedia.co.uk 
E / sarah@channelzero.com.au 
http://www.channelzero.com.au/ 
The Marketing Group plc (“TMG”) in brief 
TMG is building a global full-service marketing network that respects the individual cultures of each agency that joins. By providing a supportive platform for growth, and an agile management approach, TMG aims to provide a fresh alternative to the big holding companies: Independent Spirit - Global scale. Each company within the group provides specialist marketing services brought together, within complementary communities of practice, to form an international network that can address a global market. The central team supports its subsidiaries through a lean and nimble structure that can respond quickly to change and provide highly effective solutions for clients. The Marketing Group is listed on Nasdaq First North, Stockholm. www.tmg-plc.com . Mangold Fondkommission AB, +46 8-5030 15 50, is the company’s Certified Adviser and liquidity provider. 
Tags: