Senior Counsel Nordics to Philip Morris International   17:02 
About us 
PMI is the world´s leading international tobacco company, with six of the world´s top 15 international brands and products sold in more than 180 markets. In addition to the manufacture and sale of cigarettes, including the number one global cigarette brand, and other tobacco products, PMI is engaged in the development and commercialization of Reduced-Risk Products ("RRPs"). RRPs is the term PMI uses to refer to products with the potential to reduce individual risk and population harm in comparison to smoking cigarettes. Through multidisciplinary capabilities in product development, state-of-the-art facilities, and industry-leading scientific substantiation, PMI aims to provide an RRP portfolio that meets a broad spectrum of adult smoker preferences and rigorous regulatory requirements. It is our ambition to replace cigarettes with RRP as soon as possible with the ultimate goal to deliver a smoke-free future. For more information, see www.pmi.com and www.pmiscience.com. 
The Legal Department consists of about 240 lawyers in total globally, among which about 40 are supporting the EU and EEA markets. We are now looking for a Senior Counsel Nordics to head the Nordic Legal Department in Stockholm after a short transition period with the current Senior Counsel Nordics. 
The Opportunity 
This is an exciting time for PMI as PMI is undergoing its biggest transformation, in working towards a smoke free future we are fundamentally changing our business by driving innovation, putting the consumer at the core and creating space for our employees to deliver. The position as Senior Counsel Nordics plays a fundamental role in the journey towards a smoke-free world. 
The role 
As Senior Legal Counsel Nordics (Head of function) you are responsible for all legal matters in the five Nordic countries; Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden. As such, you will be dealing with all legal matters affecting or relevant to PMI´s activity such as tobacco regulation, preparing and negotiating contracts, dealing with employees, customers, suppliers, authorities and third parties. You will manage the Nordic legal department which currently consist of two head counts (Senior Counsel Nordics and Counsel Nordics). You will also engage with and manage external counsels in all Nordic countries. You will be an important part of the Nordic management team and as such you will take part in strategic discussions and decisions on all company related matters. 
The place of work is Stockholm. The work will include travelling, 20-30 travel days per year should be expected. 
Who are you? 
You have a Law school degree and at least seven years of professional legal experience, preferably in an international environment, ideally a law firm and/or multi-national company. You have a solid legal background and you have most likely been involved in diverse projects and areas of law, e.g., general commercial and corporate law, regulatory law, competition law, employment law, marketing, contracts negotiations, e-commerce, digital business initiatives, data protection etc. 
In addition, we see the following key competencies: Be adept at identifying legal issues and know when to elevate them; Efficiently gather, analyse, and distil relevant information from appropriate sources;Implement decisions with clarity and precision while applying legal knowledge clearly and precisely; High level of business acumen and understanding business objectives, think through the practical implications, and anticipate future business and legal needs; Excellent collaboration skills and ability to work closely with the business and communicate complex legal issues in an easily understandable way; Proactively recommend thoughtful and practical solutions when faced with legal obstacles to business ideas; Curious, agile and entrepreneurial mind-set and comfortable in dealing with uncertainty is a must. 
You are fluent in English and at least one Nordic language. 
What we offer you 
You will join a company that invests in you. We will support your growth as an employee through individual development and structured career management. You will join a dynamic, fast-paced work environment in a constantly evolving industry. Our employees have the courage, curiosity, and conviction to see possibilities where others only see challenges. We offer a competitive salary and benefits package. 
Application 
In this recruitment PMI cooperates with Jurek Recruitment & Staffing. Please contact Helena Woodcock, , for further information. We look forward to receiving your application in English as soon as possible. Please note that we do not accept applications by mail.