What’s new in mobile crushing and screening? Published Today at 15:35 In this feature report, we look at new products from Kleemann, Keestrack and feature a Rubble Master job site report from London. Kleemann has announced its latest developments in mobile crushing and screening namely, the mobile impact crusher Mobirex MR 110 Z EVO2, and the mobile classifying screen Mobiscreen MS 952 EVO. Both are highly versatile, flexible and highly suitable for recycling applications. The former has been designed both for recycling and natural stone processing, with material being pre-screened and levelled by its double deck pre-screen. Thanks to its material flow concept, the plant achieves an output of up to 350t/h, with an optional secondary screening unit having a large screening area for a thoroughly classified final product. As with all Mobirex units, it is equipped with the award winning ‘lock and turn’ system, which provides safe maintenance. Access to the plant is only possible via a multi stage safety system, with the rotor being able to be locked in any position to change the rotor ledges. All equipment in the EVO series are characterised by compact dimensions, good transportability and flexibility. This also includes the new mobile screening plants in the Mobiscreen EVO series. The double deck classifying screen on the MS 952 EVO makes it suitable for natural stone and recycling application in changing locations. The unit is able to process up to 500t/h on a screening area of approx. 9.5m² in the upper deck. As with all EVO plants from Kleemann, its components are easily accessible for convenient maintenance, with the screen media change in the lower deck, for example, being comparatively simple due to the lowerable fine grain discharge conveyor. In addition to the equipment, Kleeman has introduced its ‘Spective’ system. This being an intuitively operated control concept that supports users wherever they work. This is achieved by the use of clear symbols that make all plant functions identifiable at a glance. The 300mm touch panel only displays information that is relevant to machine operation, with the operator being guided through the control system in a similar manner to a smart phone, which considerably reduces the number of operating errors. In addition, data on machine operation can be called up in the plant cockpit. Spective will be initially available for the crushing plants in the PRO series and the latest impact crusher in the Mobirex MR EVO2 series. Keestrack Keestrack has introduced its H6e cone crusher. Similar to the 2016 H4e, the new 62t fully hybrid machine is based on the use of leading crushing technology combined with an innovative diesel electric drive concept, enabling flexibility and cost efficiency. The H6e, capable of up to 400t/h, provides a high level of mobility thanks to its compact design, delivering economic productivity due to efficient transport and screening modules. It is able to work on a broad range of applications thanks to the use of its proven cone crushing technology. A maximum feed size of 215mm, variable crushing chamber configuration and stroke settings enable the H6 model to offer a wide CSS range from 6mm to 44mm, while the drive and control technology have been specially adapted in line with the Keestrack hybrid concept. The crusher is driven by a 220kW electric motor, with the lubrication system, the hydraulic hydroset control with overload cut out, and the air compression of the crusher housing being powered by separate electric motors/pump units. All crusher functions are incorporated into the central Keestrack PLC controller, which also enables loading personnel in excavators or loaders to operate the machine by means of a remote control unit. An optional extra is the ‘Keestrack-er’ satellite based tele monitoring system which documents all the key performance data of the crusher in real time, alerts the operator to any malfunctions, and collects the current production data if an optional belt scale is installed. A 345 kW Volvo diesel engine (EU IV) with a connected 500 kVA generator supplies on board energy. The entire drive unit is designed as a removable module, as now is the case for the smaller H4e machine. Located remotely from the crushing plant, dust and vibration levels can be clearly reduced, maintenance access can be facilitated, and hence the availability and service life of the drive unit can be clearly optimised. All the crusher operating functions remain active, including the 63A connector for add on screening units or stockpile conveyors. The H6e also offers plug in power supply from the mains or additional generator as a standard, making it possible to reduce direct energy costs by up to 70%. The size and capacity of all charging and discharging equipment are geared to providing high capacity aggregate crushing and, like the track drive, hydraulic cylinders and other hydraulic components (motor/engine fans) are powered via the load sensing operating hydraulics by two 30kW electric motors. Thanks to Keestrack’s hybrid concept, new cyclone extraction technology, and the effective cooling characteristics of the largely steel piped hydraulic system, the operating cost sensitive volume of hydraulic fluid can be reduced to 120l. A 1,200mm wide hydraulically driven belt feeder with integrated metal detector feeds material from the 8m³ hopper (optionally 12m³) with load release device for the equal distribution of the feedstock (max. 400t/h). The main discharge conveyor has an 11kW electric drive motor, and reaches a drop/transfer height of 4,800mm offering a stockpiling capacity of 350t without post screening. With a total screening area of 24.5m² over three decks, the optional H6e post screen module also provides the same high production rates including oversize material recycling. The screen box has a sensor monitored hydraulic drive, with all belts powered by maintenance friendly electric drum drives. Providing large stockpiling capacity during operation, the discharge conveyors for transport can be fully retracted hydraulically for transport. Search Professional Demolition International - What’s new in mobile crushing and screening? Join our Newsletter