Indeco rocks in New Hampshire Published Today at 14:17 New Hampshire Rock Reduction, contractors based in New England, USA, has improved productivity through the use of Indeco hammers for rock breaking and excavation. Located in the northeast corner of the U.S., New Hampshire is one of the country’s smallest states. Noted for a rocky terrain, New Hampshire’s geology includes a heavy presence of metamorphic, especially igneous, rock formations, which yield different types of granite. The many quarries producing this material used in construction, such as ornamental stone and for monuments, earned New Hampshire its nickname of ‘The Granite State’. Even in areas of New Hampshire where the rock formations do not justify quarrying, the land is so rocky that any excavation job requires the removal of large boulders or extraction of rock often with a high compressive strength. No more blasting Given the occurrence and hardness of the rock masses, blasting was long considered the only valid method for excavating to allow for civil engineering and industrial projects, as well as road infrastructure works. However, over the last decade the hydraulic hammer has become more commonly used for trenching, laying utilities, excavating small and medium-sized lots, and profiling slopes. One such believer in the attributes of hammers is Parker Mullins. After gaining valuable experience working for one of the major local contractors specialised in blasting, nine years ago he decided to start his own company, New Hampshire Rock Reduction. Mullins was aware of the increasing difficulties using explosives due to environmental impact and a constant rise in costs. He realised that in certain situations the hammer could offer advantages, and in the end be a more efficient and less costly alternative. His conviction led him to take the next step: purchasing an Indeco HP 5000, followed by an HP 9000, then an HP 12000. The decision was a calculated one: “Prioritising the use of the hammer was definitely the decision that gave our company a future, as it allowed us to take on a whole set of projects that we’d otherwise be excluded from. While blasting certainly offers advantages when the job is to excavate large areas containing formations with little fracturing, and certain types of very hard gray granite, in other situations it’s not the best solution, especially when working in residential areas where the lots include very fractured rock masses.” He continues, “Preparations for blasting can also be complex; often we have to create the service road so that the drill rigs can reach the areas where the explosives are to be placed, and that translates into increases in costs and time. In those conditions, in which most of our work takes place, excavators coupled with hammers are much more productive and ensure greater profitability.” New Hampshire Rock Reduction’s experience also demonstrates how, in certain situations, the hammer is fundamentally more efficient when compared to blasting; it’s also the only method for jobs like profiling slopes, or excavating rock in big areas within residential zones, or areas that have a protected status. “In the job we did in Goffstown we excavated an area of over 20,000ft 2 . This was the last lot of a project for a future real estate development, and explosives could be used only in the upper part since there was a protected wetland below. We achieved excellent productivity using the HP 16000 on the fractured granite, although the presence of mica and quartzite increased the abrasiveness of the material, which obviously had effects on the chisel. Our productivity was similar in another job in a residential area of New Boston, where we used the HP 13001 to excavate a lot containing blue granite with practically no fracturing and considerable hardness. Again, in a situation where blasting would have been impossible, the hammer was very effective despite the fact the material had a compressive strength that tested the limits of this excavation method,” says Parker Mullins. Excellent support The constant use of the hammer inevitably involves routine maintenance issues. If not met properly, those problems can firstly result in lower productivity and secondly, affect the vital parts of the attachment. To address this, Indeco North America and its network of almost 60 dealers, have always made service a priority. “Our approach to service is that there are no customers with more or less importance; anyone who buys our hammers is treated equally when it comes to assistance. To ensure that, we, along with our dealer network, are committed to solving problems as quickly and most effectively as possible,” says Nick Davidson, New England sales manager Indeco North America. Emphasis on service is an aspect that certainly hasn’t escaped the attention of Parker Mullins, who commented: “We’re very satisfied with the Indeco product, and I’m not only referring to its quality, reliability and productivity, but also to the steady support provided by Indeco North America and the dealer Anderson Equipment from whom we bought all three hammers. Ours is a continuous collaborative relationship; we could say that Indeco has really helped us to grow.” Search Professional Demolition International - Indeco rocks in New Hampshire Join our Newsletter