From 19 to 22 June, the 25th anniversary World Mining Congress will be held in Astana, Kaz Published Today at 12:05 The World Mining Congress will this year be held in Kazakhstan under the slogan of: "Innovative superiority is a step forward on the way to the growth of world mining industry". Within the framework of a congress, a number of thematic sessions will be held, dedicated to innovative solutions in the industry and attracting investment for projects. Kazakhstan was chosen due to the impressive growth experienced in all sectors of the mining industry in the country. Marek Calka, chairman of World Mining Congress, will make the opening speech, with a selection of industry experts facilitating the plenary sessions. These include Mikael Karmic, director of the Virginia Centre for coal and energy studies. Invited speakers include the Prime Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan, Bakytzhan Sagintayev; chairman of the board of ERG S.a.r.l., Alexander Mashkevich; president of Vale S.A., Keithiro Matsuo (Brazil); chief executive officer of Rio Tinto, Jean Sebastian Jacques (Australia); chief executive officer of Anglo American, Mark Cutifani (UK); head of the Toronto Stock Exchange, Robert Barnes; global head of the London Stock Exchange, Kairat Kelimbetov, and other leading industry figures. Sponsors of World Mining Congress are: Diamond Partner - LLP Eurasian Group; Gold Partners - LLP Kazzinc Holdings; KAZ Minerals Group and Polymetal International PLC. Silver Partner – LLP Kazakhmys Corporation; Bronze Partners - LLP Leica Geosystems Kazakhstan, design and construction group of LLP AA Engineering Group, and the KAI group of companies. At present, more than 200 contributions have been received from 35 countries. In addition, 265 associations from 48 countries have been invited, and more than 132 associations and international organisations from 37 countries have confirmed their participation. Search Professional Demolition International - From 19 to 22 June, the 25th anniversary World Mining Congress will be held in Astana, Kaz Join our Newsletter