100 Cummins Stage V installations ready to go Published Today at 10:40 Cummins has announced its engineers have completed 100 Stage V customer installations to date, with 30% being brand new. These include air compressors, backhoe loaders, dump trucks, fork lift trucks, container handlers, drills, pavers, cranes, excavators, wheeled loaders and snow groomers From 74-503 kW (100-675hp), Cummins Stage V engines do more with less, delivering benefits for equipment operators and manufacturers. Simpler architecture, with fewer parts, means more reliability, more productivity, and improved fuel efficiency with extended service intervals driving lower running costs. The engines are more compact with less weight, having less to cool, less installation complexity and lower installation cost for manufacturers. “Whilst most manufacturers have adopted a ‘same as’ strategy from Stage IV to Stage V with little change, Cummins technology leadership has enabled us to deliver improved products with reduced complexity for our customers. For example, the Single ModuleTM after treatment and its higher NOx conversion capability has supported the removal of EGR from our 3.8-9l engines. This has positioned us for opportunities with manufacturers who had not necessarily considered Cummins in the past,” said Hugh Foden, executive director, off-highway business. Cummins B6.7 and L9 Stage V products will be certified and ready to start production in April. They both offer higher power output and torque for improved machine capability. “The higher capability of our Stage V engines is delivering down-sizing opportunities for our OEM customers. For example, the B6.7’s increase in capability means that it is replacing engines of higher displacement with no impact on equipment operation. This is delivering reductions in initial installation costs for OEMs as well as running costs for operators,” added Foden. The company has also announced that its F3.8 and B4.5 engines will also be ready prior to the required date of 2020, with substantial increases in power and torque for Stage V. 
Search Professional Demolition International - 100 Cummins Stage V installations ready to go Join our Newsletter