Illinois demolition firm smothers dust from garage takedown Published Today at 10:52 Depending on the source and ambient conditions, airborne dust can contribute to a number of concerns, including potential health or safety hazards, environmental issues, regulatory challenges, higher equipment maintenance costs and poor community relations. Failure to address fugitive dust in urban demolition can also damage a firm’s reputation to the point that it jeopardizes future business. Management at River City Demolition was well aware of the challenges faced when planning began for the teardown of a five story parking deck in downtown Peoria, Illinois, USA. From the outset, its planners realised that the downtown location of the parking deck would require dust control beyond the conventional approach of manual spraying with a fire hose. “With occupied buildings on two sides, and city streets on the other two, we wanted to find the best method available to suppress the demolition dust and prevent its migration,” observed River City’s Josh Runyon. Runyon was aware that one of the leading manufacturers of open area dust suppression equipment was located right in Peoria, so he contacted BossTek and described the project. “I had run into them a few years ago at a trade show,” he recalled, “we didn’t have an immediate need at the time, but I remembered being impressed by the technology.” The project The all concrete parking structure was certain to create a significant amount of dust, no matter what equipment was chosen for the work. Due to its close in location and confined space, River City crews decided to use a jaw processor to pulverize the concrete and take the parking decks down a section at a time. That helped avoid dust clouds from large sections falling at once, but Runyon stressed the need for containment when he spoke to BossTek’s Mike Lewis. “The rental market for dust suppression equipment is booming right now,” Lewis commented. “Many contractors are realizing that there’s better technology available than manual spraying, and renting gives them access to the right machines for a given project, without the capital expense of a purchase. When Josh called us, our entire fleet was already committed, but we had a DustBoss® DB-60 FusionTM on hand, which is one of our larger designs.” With all components mounted on a road worthy trailer, the system gave River City crews the versatility to position the fan driven unit wherever it was needed on a given day. The water source was a municipal hydrant located nearby, fed by a standard 2” (50.1mm) hose. Atomised mist technology Basic spraying techniques such as sprinklers or hand held hoses can help capture ground level dust before it becomes airborne, with their greatest drawback being droplet size. Water droplets produced this way are simply far too large to have any meaningful effect on airborne dust particles. A more effective option is an atomised mist, which relies on the principle of creating tiny droplets of a specific size and delivering them at relatively high velocity over a wide coverage area. The DB-60 Fusion accomplishes this process as it forces water through a circular stainless steel manifold with 30 atomising spray nozzles, which then launches millions of tiny droplets with a powerful 25HP fan. The of 50-200 micron mist droplets are thrown out in a 200ft (approx. 60m) cone at an adjustable 0-50° elevation angle, capturing airborne dust particles and dragging them to the ground. Water requirements are also reduced. Results From the beginning, Runyon’s suspicions proved correct. “It was one of the dustiest projects I’ve ever worked on, but the DustBoss did a great job. We could locate and aim it perfectly each day, and neighbours seemed pleased with the dust management. In fact, we didn’t receive a single dust related complaint during the entire job.” www.bosstek.com Search Professional Demolition International - Illinois demolition firm smothers dust from garage takedown Join our Newsletter