New Transforming products from ALLU at Intermat 2018 Published Today at 10:39 ALLU Group will be proudly exhibiting equipment from its Transformer and Processor ranges at Intermat 2018. As well as established equipment, ALLU will unveil the latest features and launch a new, exciting development. The next Intermat will be held from the 23 to 28 April in Paris. As one of the world’s leading construction equipment exhibitions, ALLU will be using the show to exhibit leading members of its Transformer and Processor ranges, outline the new features on the equipment, and launch its latest development aimed at further enhancing customer business operations. The ALLU stand will be located in the inside earthmoving and demolition area of the extensive show ground. The purpose designed stand will enable ALLU to show visitors how the ALLU equipment is able to transform business operations, delivering improved productivity, efficiency and profitability. ALLU Processor Featured at the show will be the ALLU Processor which enables companies to treat and quickly access low bearing capacity ground for infrastructure development by the use of fully mobile equipment. The Processor has proved itself throughout the world on road construction, building developments, and various contaminated soil processing applications. The solution whatever your material Catering for applications of all sizes and capable of processing any material that can be screened and sorted, pride of place at Intermat will be given to the ALLU Transformer Series. This comprises of the compact DL & D Series as well as the truly massive M Series. All are designed to transform the way in which construction businesses are able to improve their efficiency and profitability. New Solution to be launched at show As well as the above equipment, ALLU will be introducing for the very first time a two-way solution aimed at maximising customers’ investment. This will be shown and demonstrated at Intermat, enabling visitors to see at first-hand how ALLU is about much more than the supply of world-leading equipment. Search Professional Demolition International - New Transforming products from ALLU at Intermat 2018 Join our Newsletter