Links   Business intelligence New education offering insight and inspiration for all - legacy, security and equality among hot topics at IMEX in Frankfurt “To have access to such a huge range of high calibre speakers is indispensable and were confident theyll inspire new ideas and fresh approaches. Weve carefully curated our education programme to offer timely, creative insight thats relevant to meetings industry veterans, those about to enter the industry, and everyone in between.” Carina Bauer, CEO of the IMEX Group, explains why the comprehensive programme of free education – alongside the vast array of exhibitors - is a reason not to miss IMEX in Frankfurt, taking place 15 – 17 May. A full programme of professional education and insights runs throughout the three days of the show as well as during EduMonday, taking place the day before IMEX in Frankfurt, on Monday 14 May. From general education open to all – planners, suppliers, partners, exhibitors - to specialist sessions designed for specific areas of the industry, the expert-led education programme during EduMonday will help attendees foster fresh ideas and new habits, with a firm focus on professional development. London Business Schools Executive Director of Thought Leadership Adam Kingl will lead PCMA Business School, offering a free MBA-quality professional development workshop on Strategic Innovation: Disrupting the Events Industry with New Business Models. The Agency Directors Forum is a new facilitated forum for professionals who own, or are part of, a senior management team at small to mid-size meetings and events agencies. Meanwhile, the younger generation of meeting professionals can kick start their career at Rising Talent, a new programme designed for the under 35s by the under 35s. Exhibitor-focused sessions cover sales skills, strategies for follow ups and destination marketing techniques including the popular Global Destinations Sustainability Index and Report. IMEX is also offering the Event Design Certificate, a full day workshop intro to the Event Canvas Model, a strategic event management model for customer-centric events. This allows 30 English and 30 German-speaking event professionals to take their career to the next level by taking the certification free of charge on the day. Theres also exclusive education and networking for corporate meeting planners at Exclusively Corporate and for association meeting planners at Association Day. In between the wide range of sessions delegates can enjoy live entertainment, take time to refocus in the white space area or rejuvenate in the Be Well Lounge. A wider programme of free education runs across the three days of the show with over 180 seminars, including workshops, campfires and bite-sized show-floor education. Attendees can choose from carefully selected tracks, including Business Skills, Creative Learning, Marketing and Social Media and Diversity, to create their own bespoke schedule, all designed to help them keep a finger on the pulse of the industry. Legacy, IMEXs Talking Point for this year, is explored through sessions including What societal impact your meeting can leave in a city by BestCities Global Alliance. This facilitated discussion explores the impact a meeting has on a destination including how working with the local convention bureau can open the door to opportunities. Creating connections with both delegates and communities is covered in The age of engagement: an audience-centric approach to building community with IAPCO and PCMA. IAPCO also deliver a case study-led session Connecting communities for global vision, sharing details of a delegate-focused conference designed to connect participants from all parts of the world and achieve a united vision. Part of the Diversity strand, You go girl. Engaging Meetings, focuses on attracting more women in leadership and discusses guidelines to ensure women achieve their full potential in the workplace. The progress is real: is gender parity truly on the horizon? by WINIT looks at how equality will develop in the next few years. With IMEX research showing that a massive 93% of hosted buyers and visitors who attend IMEX are interested in planning events more sustainably, a dedicated sustainability track includes sessions such as The cool list for a green planet and Easy ways to get started with sustainable events with a special focus on reducing costs while improving quality and sustainability, both delivered by EIC Sustainability. IAEE sessions enable delegates to experience the latest event technology and how to use it to improve security. EIC focuses on various elements of cyber security in their sessions including Cyber safety for meetings and events: is your head in the clouds? The rapidly growing world of influencers is explored in many sessions. In Becoming an influencer: building an online #eventsprofs community, Shocklogic share advice on the best channels and content for audience engagement, including case studies from the experience of a millennial influencer. Word of MICE cover The ABC of influencer marketing and Cvent Europe explore how to Reignite your event marketing: channels for continuous engagement. All education at IMEX is free and open to all. Some specialist sessions at EduMonday require pre-registration. For further details and to register click here. Watch our interview with Carina where she explains how the extensive EduMonday programme offers expert education for all.