Posted by admin on Tuesday, April 17, 2018 · Leave a Comment Eniga and Wesseh agree that UNESCO and MRU can work together in many areas 
The United Nations Educational and Scientific Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the Mano River Union (MRU) have held talks on the need to sign a Memorandum Of Understanding(MOU) that will ensure that the two organizations work closely together in many areas. MRU Secretary General Ambassador Medina Wesseh said the MOU will address many areas of cooperation and partnership as it relates to education, ITC, peace building and further promoting democratic institutions in the MRU basin. 
Ambassador Wesseh was speaking when she held talks with UNESCO Deputy Director Getachew Engida at the UNESCO headquarters in Paris, France. 
She noted that the union has created four centers of excellence with the School of Mines in Guinea, the Forestry Training Institute in Liberia, The ITC Center in Sierra Leone and the University of Engineering in La Cote d’Ivoire. 
She said these centers will help in training young men and women who will contribute positively to the development of the MRU region. 
Ambassador Wesseh added that the MRU sub-region has a population of over 45 million with nine local languages around the border areas and that the community stands a better place for peace promotion, good governance and national healing especially after several years of conflict in the community. UNESCO Deputy Director Engida commended Ambassador Wesseh for the commendable ideas and also pledged the organization’s unflinching support to ensure that the programs of the MRU are implemented. Mr. Engida praised the MRU for promoting peace and democracy in the sub-region, adding with democracy at the core of the region, all other programs will be implemented unhindered. 
He assured Ambassador Wessseh that the African Department of UNESCO will take charge of the MOU preparation and ensure that it speeds up the process, so that genuine action can be matched with words in the coming months. He said the MRU has a unique opportunity of multi-lingualism, mixed culture and a renewed sense of national building and national cohesion. While at UNESCO, Ambassador Wesseh held talks with Angela Melo, director for policies and programs, Edmond Mukala, director for African heritage, Noeline Raonimahary, head of bio-sphere reserves and Eden Adubra head of teachers taskforce, among others.