Legal Counsel to Volvo Cars Corporate Legal HQ, Gothenburg   15:08 
We aim high. So do you. 
At Volvo Cars we have bold targets when it comes to innovation, sales and customer experience and we are developing new technologies to lead in safety, autonomous driving and electrification. If you want to grow together with talented people creating a new automotive future, we have a job for you. 
It is a great time to become part of Volvo Cars global legal team. As a strategic and dynamic part of the company, we work closely with all parts of the business as a partner to make reality of the business decisions. We operate in a challenging international business environment where you will find excellent opportunities to grow as a professional. 
We are looking for a Legal Counsel 
Your key tasks include: Provide the Volvo Car organisation with legal support in almost all kinds of commercial and corporate legal matters, sometimes of complex and global nature. This include document and contract drafting, negotiations with third parties and due diligence support. Work closely with more senior legal counsels. Provide legal training to the organisation and work with competition law related enquiries. Be engaged in the development of legal tools, templates and communication materials. 
Do you fit the profile? Master of laws required to practise law in a EU jurisdiction with grades in the upper tier. Minimum 6 years of experience in practising business law at a law firm and/or in-house. General commercial, with substantial experience in contract drafting and negotiation. M&A experience, project lead responsibility being a merit. Proven working knowledge within competition law. Tech interested. Fluent in English. We see it as a merit if you have a law degree from a university in the UK. 
Additionally: You have a proven ability to define and solve complicated problems, which require careful analysis, considerable legal skills and good judgement. You have proven ability to provide qualified advice, which adds value to the business. You have integrity and a high level of accountability and commitment. Your approach is proactive, commercial, customer oriented and you are willing to walk the extra mile. You are a team player with well-developed communication and presentation skills. 
Application 
Please apply before 6 May 2018. If you have questions regarding the position contact Victoria Johansson (Senior Director, Legal) at . For questions regarding the recruitment process contact Emma Östlingh (Senior Recruiter) . 
We look forward to your application! 
Please send in your application as soon as possible, as we will review applications continuously. Note that applications via email will not be accepted. 
Who are we? 
Volvo Cars is a company on a mission: to bring traditional car manufacturing into a connected, sustainable and smart future. Since 1927, we have been a brand known for our commitment to safety, creating innovative cars that make life less complicated for our consumers. In 2010, we decided to transform our business, resulting in a totally new generation of cars and technologies, as well as steady growth and record sales. Today, we are expanding our global footprint in Europe, China and the US, and are on the lookout for new talent. 
We are constantly pushing our own skills and abilities to drive change in the automobile industry like never before. We are looking for innovative, committed people to join us in this endeavour and create safe, sustainable and connected cars. We believe in the power of people and will challenge and support you to reach your full potential. Join us and be part of Volvo Cars’ journey into the future. 
#LI-ER1