Junior Legal Counsel Nordics to Unilever   08:37 
Unilever is one of the world´s leading suppliers of fast moving consumer goods in foods, household and personal care products. Our purpose is to meet the everyday needs of our consumers and to respond creatively and competitively with branded products and services, which raise the quality of life. 
Unilever has, from its origins, been a purpose-driven company. Today our purpose is to make sustainable living commonplace. In order to realize sustainable growth, we are integrating sustainability into our strategy, brands and innovation. We are working with our customers and suppliers, engaging employees and engaging in new partnerships. 
We have an exciting opportunity for a talented legal professional to support our Nordic organisation. 
The position is based on Solna, and you will report to the General Counsel Nordics. The start date is preferably May/June 2018. 
Background 
Unilever Nordics has 1200 employees with a turnover of around 900 million Euro. The business has key brands such as GB Glace, Knorr, Lipton, Milda, Frisko, Via, Neutral, Bio-tex, Ben & Jerry´s, Zendium, Pepsodent, Dove and many more. The market is characterized by high competitive pressure and fast innovation and development pace. 
Our local offices are based in Stockholm, Oslo, Copenhagen and Helsinki, and we have four Nordic manufacturing units. The Nordic head office is based in Solna, Stockholm. 
Unilever has a performance culture, yet being motivating, supportive and fun. The Unilever team is consisting of easy-going, high-performing people. For the right candidate, this position offers a great opportunity to be part of a fantastic journey. 
The Position 
You will be a key part of the Nordic legal team and provide legal advice, directly and through the senior team members, in support of the full range of business activities conducted by the Nordic organization. You will also regularly interact with business colleagues across Nordics. 
The day-to-day work will include advice and support in relation to, for example: Marketing claims and consumer protection; Intellectual property, with a focus on trademarks; Contracts and various terms and conditions; Data Protection; Legal research 
You will also be involved in the development of legal know-how and templates for the legal team, the roll out of internal training and to some extent handle paralegal/admin tasks. 
Who are we looking for? 
We believe you have a law degree in one of the Nordic countries and 1-2 years of experience from legal services. You are keen to develop a career in a multinational corporation and have a true passion for commercial law. You are business oriented, communicative with a powerful self-drive. You are used to working independently, but at the same time a strong team-player who can demonstrate courage and integrity. The position requires excellent communications skills (oral and written) in English and at least one of the following Nordic languages: Swedish, Danish or Norwegian. Finnish language capability is a merit. 
What´s in it for you? 
We offer you the opportunity to develop an exciting career as in-house lawyer, where driving growth through business oriented legal solution is in focus. You will become part of a professional and engaging team where you will have an active part to play in the business. As a member of Unilever Legal, you will also regularly interact with legal colleagues outside Nordics, and have access to internal training programmes and collaboration platforms. 
To Apply 
In this recruitment, Unilever cooperates with Jurek Recruitment & Staffing. Please contact Helena Woodcock, , for further information. We look forward to receiving your application in English as soon as possible. Please note that we do not accept applications by mail. 
We embrace diversity in our workforce. This means giving full and fair consideration to all applicants.