Dahua & TÜV Rheinland aim to enhance data protection ecosystem Hangzhou, China (Left-Right): Mr. Zhang Xingming, Mr. Zhang Junchang, Mr. Li Huayu, and Mr. Yang Jiajie 
On the morning of March 30th, 2018, Dahua Technology signed a strategic cooperation agreement with TÜV Rheinland (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (hereinafter referred to as “TÜV Rheinland”), a world leading third-party inspection, testing and certification company, to provide a comprehensive solution that centres on IoT (Internet of Things) product privacy protection certification towards multiple Dahua products including IP cameras, network video recorders, software platforms, intelligent servers, etc. 
Mr. Yang Jiajie, Vice President of TÜV Rheinland Electrical Business in Greater China, Mr. Li Huayu, General Manager of TÜV Rheinland General Electronics Business, and Mr. Zhang Xingming, Vice President of Dahua Technology, Mr. Zhang Junchang, Director of Cybersecurity Product Line of Dahua Technology, Mr. Wang Fei, Deputy General Manager of Dahua Overseas Business, Mr. Peng Xiaoyu, General Manager of Dahua Legal Department, accompanied by top management from both sides, attended the signing ceremony. 
The cooperation aims to help Dahua Technology better cope with the upcoming implementation of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a data privacy law drafted by the European Union as one “most stringent in history”, and will be implemented on May 25th, 2018. GDPR establishes strict protection standards for personal data security and privacy rights. It also enhances the level and applicable scope of personal data protection. Wherever a company is located, as long as it processes personal data of an EU citizen during the provision of products or services, it must comply with GDPR. Otherwise, the company may face fines of up to € 20 million or four percent of a company’s revenue. 
According to the agreement, TÜV Rheinland will work with Dahua’s internal data compliance team to provide comprehensive joint design and testing services towards Dahua Technology’s IP cameras, network video recorders, software platforms, intelligent servers, etc. The services from TÜV Rheinland are based upon EU GDPR Act and the internal 2PfG standard, including hardware and firmware, privacy data processing, local communications, Internet communications, applications, penetration tests, and factory inspections. Products which pass the test and obtain the TUV Rheinland test logo of the IoT product privacy protection mean that they are world-class in information security and privacy protection. 
"As a leading solution provider in the global video surveillance industry, Dahua has always attached great importance to the user's personal privacy and data security. The strategic cooperation with TÜV Rheinland is well in line with Dahua’s company mission, which is enabling a safer society and smarter living. Through years’ of continuous efforts, Dahua has built a foundation in regards to data supervision. We believe with the support of professional services from TÜV Rheinland, Dahua’s data supervision capability will reach a new height and thus consolidate our momentum in the global market” Mr. Zhang Xingming from Dahua Technology said. 
"Due to global applicability of GDPR, the manufacturers and exporters of China's IoT products will face major impacts. To help related companies better cope with GDPR, TÜV Rheinland, with years of experience in the field of information security, has launched the IoT product privacy protection service. This service, a brand new business generated based upon GDPR, will help IoT manufacturers fully comply with the new legislation, successfully enter into the European market and seize market opportunities in better timing." Said Mr. Yang Jiajie, Vice President of TÜV Rheinland Electrical Business in Greater China. As for the significance of this strategic cooperation, he added, “Dahua Technology is among the first batch of the companies that have cooperated with TÜV Rheinland to enjoy IoT product privacy protection service, demonstrating its respect for privacy as well as its positive and rapid response to market changes. Through our respective professional capabilities, we will work together to enhance the competitiveness of the industry." 
Dahua Technology aims to become a world leading video-centric smart IoT solution & service provider, and enhancing privacy protection to its IoT product is one basic but key step. The upcoming implementation of GDPR will give the global security market a mandate standard that everyone has to follow, significantly improving the protection of personal data security and privacy rights. Email: