Siemens and Hendrick Motorsports extend championship-winning technical partnership Wed, Apr 18, 2018 08:00 CET Hendrick Motorsports leverages Siemens’ digital twin technology for racing success Siemens’ NX, Simcenter and Teamcenter software enable improved response times to create competitive advantages on the racetrack 
Announced today, Siemens PLM Software and 12-time NASCAR Cup Series champions Hendrick Motorsports have extended their longstanding technical partnership through the 2024 racing season. One of NASCAR’s most successful teams with a record 15 national series owner’s titles, Hendrick Motorsports began using software in its engine engineering department in the early 1990s and has partnered with Siemens PLM Software since 1997. Using Siemens PLM Software’s NX™ software, Simcenter™ software and Teamcenter® software for its product development needs, Hendrick Motorsports leverages the digital twin to gain a competitive edge every week, long before the drivers are even on the track. 
­­"If we can take advantage of a change more quickly or develop and implement new ideas faster than our competition, it can result in winning races,” said Tad Merriman, engine engineering manager, Hendrick Motorsports. “Using Siemens’ PLM Software provides a competitive advantage for our entire organization.” 
Hendrick Motorsports leverages NX software, Siemens PLM Software’s comprehensive digital product development solution, to design and optimize performance of its race cars. The design and analysis tools in NX allow team engineers to virtually build and test parts that will help maximize horsepower and performance on the track each weekend. 
Teamcenter, the world’s most widely used digital lifecycle management solution, creates a digital backbone to help Hendrick Motorsports manage the entire product lifecycle for its racing operations, helping to make sure that designs meet requirements and providing the engineers and other personnel with “anywhere, anytime” access to information. In addition to CAD, CAM and CAE information, a wide variety of data, including track performance data and build sheets, are organized and linked in a way that makes sense to everyone in the organization. Using this digital twin, data is quickly and easily accessible, helping to provide consistency and efficiency across the entire team. 
“The Hendrick Motorsports team is a longstanding example of just how effective the digital twin can be, particularly in a fast-paced environment such as racing,” said Del Costy, senior vice president and managing director, Americas, Siemens PLM Software. “This extension of our partnership is a testament to how well our organizations have worked together over the years, as is the great success the Hendrick team has achieved. We look forward to what can be accomplished over the next seven years.” 
Hendrick Motorsports also leverages the Simcenter portfolio to optimize performance for everything from individual parts to the behavior of the entire car. This includes evaluating new components and systems, optimizing designs before release, performing forensic failure analysis and decoding the mechanics of a failure that has occurred, as well as understanding generally accepted performance rules. 
“What we do is like having a new product introduction every week for 38 weeks,” said Jim Wall, engine program director, Hendrick Motorsports. “You have to reinvent yourself every single week, understanding the advantage is getting your ideas to the racetrack before someone else does. In the last decade, we have moved forward with a more optimal design from the concept stage. We are using finite element analysis as an upfront tool for the design so we don’t have to break the part before we improve it. We want to engineer components that allow our teams to showcase their talents to the best of their abilities.” 
Since the Hendrick Motorsports partnership with Siemens PLM Software started in 
1997, Hendrick Motorsports has won over 250 NASCAR national series races and 14 championships, including 11 in the elite NASCAR Cup Series with drivers Jeff Gordon, Terry Labonte and Jimmie Johnson. 
Siemens PLM Software, a business unit of the Siemens Digital Factory Division, is a leading global provider of software solutions to drive the digital transformation of industry, creating new opportunities for manufacturers to realize innovation. With headquarters in Plano, Texas, and over 140,000 customers worldwide, Siemens PLM Software works with companies of all sizes to transform the way ideas come to life, the way products are realized, and the way products and assets in operation are used and understood. For more information on Siemens PLM Software products and services, visit www.siemens.com/plm. 
Contact for journalists 
Phone: +1 314 264 8671; E-mail: Natalie.Navales@siemens.com 
Phone: +46 73 660 81 75E-mail: Johan.Nybom@InmemaPR.com 
Follow us on Twitter at: www.twitter.com/siemens_press 
Siemens AG (Berlin and Munich) is a global technology powerhouse that has stood for engineering excellence, innovation, quality, reliability and internationality for 170 years. The company is active around the globe, focusing on the areas of electrification, automation and digitalization. One of the world’s largest producers of energy-efficient, resource-saving technologies, Siemens is a leading supplier of efficient power generation and power transmission solutions and a pioneer in infrastructure solutions as well as automation, drive and software solutions for industry. The company is also a leading provider of medical imaging equipment – such as computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging systems – and a leader in laboratory diagnostics as well as clinical IT. In fiscal 2017, which ended on September 30, 2017, Siemens generated revenue of €83.0 billion and net income of €6.2 billion. At the end of September 2017, the company had around 377,000 employees worldwide. Further information is available on the Internet at www.siemens.com . 
Note: Siemens and the Siemens logo are trademarks or registered trademarks of Siemens AG. NX and Teamcenter are trademarks or registered trademarks of Siemens Product Lifecycle Management Software Inc. or its subsidiaries in the United States and in other countries. Simcenter is a trademark or registered trademark of Siemens Industry Software NV or any of its affiliates. All other trademarks, registered trademarks or service marks belong to their respective holders. 
Tags: