Bona introduces new brush technology that enables exciting wood floor effects Wed, Apr 18, 2018 10:00 CET 
Bona, the leading name in wood floor treatment, introduces a new brush technology that allows professionals to enhance the natural character of wood and create inspirational new looks with ease. 
With a century-long dedication and passion for wooden floors, Bona has developed an innovative system for creating exciting flooring effects as a part of the Bona Inspiration concept - a floor styling program with inspiration and guidance in flooring trends. New Bona Brush Technology is a unique system that allows the contractor to renovate existing floors to create new, trendy effects, recreate the latest engineered floor trends, or simply restore the natural beauty of original floors. From texture and contrasts, to eye-catching 2 colour effects, when combined with Bona’s wide range of oils and finishes, the design possibilities are endless. 
Bona Brush Technology comprises of wire brush attachments that are compatible with Bona FlexiSand 1.9. The heads are mounted onto the Bona Power Drive NEB through a simple click-lock mechanism, which is then attached to the Bona FlexiSand for fast, easy, direction-free sanding and brushing. The counter-rotating cylindrical wire heads brush down, removing the soft wood, which allows the coloured oil to settle between the grain. 
For edges and hard-to-reach areas, Bona introduces the new Bona SupraFlex all-in-one edge tool. Suitable for both brushing and sanding of wood and other substrates, Bona SupraFlex is the perfect companion to the Bona Power Drive NEB. 
“Bona Brush Technology offers the wood floor contractor the possibility to create a range of creative effects - such as those seen in engineered floor trends - without replacing the existing floor, or to simply restore its original beauty. When used with our expanding range of Bona oils and finishes, Bona Brush Technology offers endless design possibilities, that are safe, sustainable and easy to achieve.” says Thomas Hallberg, Strategic Product Manager Professional. 
For further information, please contact: 
Thomas Hallberg, Strategic Product Manager, Professional, Bona 
Tel +4640385514 or e-mail: thomas.hallberg@bona.com 
High resolution images are attached. 
About Bona Inspiration 
The Bona Inspiration concept includes an inspiration palette encompassing a range of interior design styles in which the wooden floors play an important role, and Bona’s sanding and brushing methods, varnishes, oils and paints can bring new life to existing wooden floors. The future trends presented by Bona in their unique concept includes everything from dark, rustic floors to floors with a pale, lacquered finish. 
About Bona 
A family owned company founded in 1919, Bona delivers products for installation, maintenance and restauration of wooden floors. Bona’s turnover is 2.3 billion SEK (2017). Head office is in Malmö, and the company is globally represented by its 17 subsidiaries and 70 distributors. About Us 
We bring out the best of wooden floors! Bona is a family owned company founded in Malmö 1919. We provide products for the installation, maintenance and renovation of wooden floors throughout their lifetime and we also supply UV coatings to leading international producers of wooden floors. We offer waterborne finishes, oils, UV based finishes, ergonomic sanding machines, abrasives, adhesives and floor care products. We are world leading in wooden floor finishes and present in more than 90 different countries all over the world through subsidiaries and distributors.We have about 550 employees around the world, and a turnover of SEK 2.2 billion (EUR 234 million) in 2016. Contacts