London Top 10 places you’re most likely to see Prince Harry and Meghan Markle 
If you’re in the UK capital and have your eyes peeled for a royal spotting, there’s a list of certain restaurants, hotels and events to visit to better your chances. From a west London pub to the royal box at Wimbledon, these are the best places to spot the happy couple, Prince Harry and Meghan Markle, this summer Gallery 17 April, 2018 
The Brown Cow 
Popular Fulham pub The Brown Cow is one of Prince Harry’s favourites haunts. Several years ago, after he returned from deployment in Afghanistan, he was considered a regular not only at the cosy and lively public house, but in the Fulham area in general. Perhaps a Sunday stroll around the neighbourhood, ending with a drink in The Brown Cow, will ensure a sighting. 

The Brown Cow , 676 Fulham Road, London SW6 5SA, +44 (0)20 7384 9559 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
Bluebird 
A popular choice on the King’s Road in Chelsea, Bluebird is frequented by young professionals in the ever-sophisticated west London area. Offering a bar, restaurant, café and shop, there’s also a courtyard that’s buzzing in the summer months and the venue has become a firm favourite among many of Prince Harry’s friends from school, as well as with the Duchess of Cambridge. 

Bluebird , 350 King's Road, London SW3 5UU, +44 (0)20 7559 1000 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) © AELTC/Tim Clayton 
Wimbledon 
A self-confessed tennis fan, Meghan is often spotted supporting her close friend Serena Williams during The Championships, Wimbledon tournament. Wimbledon is a popular event with royals and celebrities so keep a close eye on the royal box for Prince Harry, Meghan and other famous faces this summer. 
Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
Fortnum & Mason 
This Piccadilly store was founded in 1707 and has been supplying the royal family with goods for centuries. Fortnum & Mason holds a royal warrant and has designed many Prince Harry and Meghan-themed gifts and souvenirs for the wedding. If the couple were to make a wedding gift list, we think Fortnum & Mason would be their store of choice. 

Fortnum & Mason , 181 Piccadilly, London W1A 1ER, +44 (0)20 7734 8040 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
Claridge’s 
A long-standing royal favourite, Claridge’s hotel is the epitome of British tradition. The Queen has made several visits to the Mayfair establishment, as have Prince Harry and Meghan, apparently. With several deluxe suites and penthouses, the hotel will make you feel like royalty with a stay in the Royal Suite or the Claridge’s King Room. 

Claridges , Brook Street, London W1K 4HR, +44 (0)20 7629 8860 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) © Steve Bardens 
Royal Ascot 
A truly royal event, Ascot always offers great odds as a place to spot the royal family each season. Prince Harry and Meghan’s first public outing was at a polo event near Windsor last year – so place your bets on seeing the couple at the races in June. 
Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
The Goring 
The only hotel to hold a royal warrant for hospitality services, The Goring has a long association with the royal family. It’s the closest luxury hotel to Buckingham Palace so naturally there have been rumours of a tunnel that connects the hotel to the palace for any late-night partying that may take place. Famously, Prince Harry fell off the hotel terrace one night and the venue is popular with his cousins Princess Eugenie and Princess Beatrice. The Belgravia hotel is also said to be one of the Queen’s favourites and Kate Middleton stayed here with her family the night before her wedding to Prince William. 

The Goring , 15 Beeston Place, London SW1W 0JW, +44 (0)20 7396 9000 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) © Paul Winch-Furness 
The Ivy 
A London landmark, The Ivy opened in 1917 and has always been a popular dining choice for celebrities and British high society. Although the original location is in Covent Garden, there are now several branches in London and we think The Ivy Chelsea Garden on the King’s Road is the best bet for spotting Prince Harry and Meghan enjoying a romantic lunch. 

The Ivy Chelsea Garden , 195 -197 King's Road, London SW3 5EQ, +44 (0)20 3301 0300 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
Bellamy’s 
It doesn’t happen often but occasionally the Queen likes to dine out and Bellamy’s is one of her favourite spots. Known for its elegance and absolute discretion, Bellamy’s is a classic Parisian brasserie that has a 65-cover dining room and is quaint, quiet and understated – the perfect place for a royal meal. Although Prince Harry and Meghan are yet to be seen here, it’s considered one of London’s most civilised venues, so no doubt the couple will make an appearance soon. 

Bellamy's , 18 Bruton Place, London W1J 6LY, +44 (0)20 7491 2727 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
Chiltern Firehouse 
Chiltern Firehouse is a luxury hotel in Marylebone. With a Michelin-starred restaurant and trendy interior design, it offers an atmosphere that is the right combination of contemporary cool and classic west-London elegance to attract a fashionable crowd fit for young royals. Meghan Markle has been seen sipping cocktails here with friends on numerous occasions so add this to your list of venues in the hope of seeing her on an evening out. 

Chiltern Firehouse , 1 Chiltern Street, London W1U 7PA, +44 (0)20 7073 7676 Find out how much you can save / Original price / Tax Refund (approx.) 
2018 marks an important year for the royal family. Prince Harry is getting married to his partner, Suits actress Meghan Markle, on 19 May and the Duke and Duchess of Cambridge are expecting their third child any day now. If you consider yourself a bit of a royal fanatic and are hoping to spot Prince Harry and Meghan during your stay in London, we suggest one of the following hotels, restaurants or events that are truly fit for a king. 