  Meet Hawai‘i to exhibit at IMEX for the first time Meet Hawai‘i, Hawai‘i Tourism Authority (HTA), MICE brand will be exhibiting at IMEX, Frankfurt from 15-17 May 2018 for the first time. Meet Hawai‘i will be exhibiting alongside partners including Hawai‘i Convention Centre, MC&A, Hilton Hawaiian Village Waikīkī Beach Resort and Hilton Waikoloa Village, as part of its ongoing strategy to becoming a leader within the MICE marketplace. Located at stand number C250, Meet Hawai‘i and its partners will be available to offer insight into Hawai‘i’s meeting, incentives, conferences and exhibition offerings, help plan and book high-level incentives, meetings and association conferences, whilst also looking to reinforce existing relationships and generate new contacts. AlohaConnects, an exclusive Meet Hawai‘i marketing and sales initiative has been designed to put Hawai‘i on the world stage as a competitive destination for world congresses and international conferences. Their aim is to emphasise Hawai‘i’s strategic location, relevant industries and HTA’s extensive activities in the business events space. Pris Texeira, Hawai‘i Tourism Global MCI’s Managing Director, said: “Meet Hawai‘i is thrilled to be exhibiting at IMEX Frankfurt for the first time. We look forward to showcasing Hawai‘i as a leading destination for hosting world-class meetings and conventions, liaising with global decision makers in the MICE sector and forging new relationships.” Hawai‘i has celebrated a recent spate of successes. The destination has been selected to host the Association for Computing Machinery in 2020, including over 3,000 computing educators, researchers and professionals visiting Hawai‘i. Furthermore, Honolulu hosted the leaders from 21 APEC economies for the 2011 APEC Leaders Week and in 2010 Hawai‘i also hosted 8,000 attendees for IUCN’s World Conservation Congress. Additionally, Hawai‘i will be hosting Rotary International in 2020 with over 10,000 attendees. This demonstrates Hawai‘i’s standing as a major contender in the MICE sector. IMEX is Europes leading trade exhibition for meetings, conventions, events and incentive travel. For further information about Hawai‘i, please visit https://www.meethawaii.com/.