STOCKHOLM, 18 April, 2018. Karolinska Development's portfolio company ModusTherapeutics candidate drug sevuparin has been granted rare pediatric diseasedesignation by the US Food&Drug Administration (FDA) for the treatment ofchildren with sickle cell disease (SCD). 
The Rare Pediatric Disease Priority Review Voucher Program provides incentivefor the development of treatments for rare pediatric diseases. A drugqualifies for this category if the entire prevalence of the disease in the USis below 200,000 and the serious or life-threatening manifestations of thedisease primarily affect individuals from birth to age 18. 
If a drug candidate with a rare pediatric disease designation receivesmarketing approval in the US, the FDA may issue a Priority Review Voucher tothe sponsor company. This voucher can be redeemed to provide Priority Reviewof a subsequent marketing application for a different product from ModusTherapeutics or another company. 
"FDA:s decision to grant sevuparin a rare pediatric disease designation haspotential to facilitate the process of providing children with SCD with amore effective pharmaceutical treatment", said Viktor Drvota CEO ofKarolinska Development. 
Children with SCD suffer from some of the most serious and life-threateningconsequences of the disease including stroke, splenic sequestration andaplastic anemia. Mortality is a significant concern in children sufferingfrom SCD globally, with 92% of newborns dying in the first few years of lifedue to lack of early diagnosis. 
There is currently no pharmaceutical product available that targets theunderlying cause of the vaso-occlusive crises that leads to the severeconsequences of SCD. Modus Therapeutics is currently conducting a Phase IIstudy with sevuparin, with estimated completion in late 2018. 
For more information about the Priority Review Voucher Program, please 
For further information, please contact: 
Viktor Drvota, CEO, Karolinska Development ABPhone: +46 73 982 52 02, e-mail: 
TO THE EDITORS 
Karolinska Development AB (Nasdaq Stockholm: KDEV) is a Nordic life sciencesinvestment company. The company focuses on identifying breakthrough medicalinnovations in the Nordic region that are developed by entrepreneurs andleadership teams. The Company invests in the creation and growth of companiesthat advance these assets into commercial products that are designed to makea difference to patients' lives while providing an attractive return oninvestment to shareholders. 
Karolinska Development has access to world-class medical innovations at theKarolinska Institutet and other leading universities and research institutesin the Nordic region. The Company aims to build companies around scientistswho are leaders in their fields, supported by experienced management teamsand advisers, and co-funded by specialist international investors, to providethe greatest chance of success. 
Karolinska Development has established a portfolio of nine companies targetingopportunities in innovative treatment for life-threatening or seriousdebilitating diseases. 
The Company is led by an entrepreneurial team of investment professionals witha proven track record as company builders and with access to a strong globalnetwork. 
For more information, please visit www.karolinskadevelopment.com 
KD Press release Modus April 2018