Oncam extends Evolution 180 series London, UK Oncam's new outdoor version of the Evolution 180 now released 
Oncam has added the Evolution 180 Outdoor model to its 180-degree camera portfolio, adding to the indoor version introduced earlier this year. 
The technology builds upon the experience and heritage of the company's 360-degree video and intelligence solutions to meet the needs of customers in a variety of markets that require an outdoor-ready wall-mounted camera with Panoramic+ views from a single fisheye sensor. 
The Evolution 180 Outdoor camera boasts an IP68 rating making it fit for submersion, as well as an IP69K rating against water and dust ingress to help protect it from the harshest of environments. The enclosure is also IK10+ rated, ensuring extensive protection against vandalism. The camera’s design combines strength and appeal to form a reliable, pleasing aesthetic that doesn’t compromise on image quality. 
The Evolution 180 Outdoor offers a 12MP sensor and a 6MP dewarped panoramic+ image. It is equipped with Oncam’s unique Angle Compensation Technology and Offset Angle Compensation, which provide adaptive dewarping of a 180-degree image in the camera. It is also a true day/night camera which allows users to get high quality video in all lighting conditions. Environments that benefit from this unique view include education, hospitality, retail, public spaces and transportation, which demand comprehensive monitoring of large, open spaces without blind spots. The solution is also ONVIF Profile S compliant for added integration flexibility with leading video management systems on the market today. 
“The Evolution 180 Outdoor makes a great addition to our 180-degree panoramic product range,” said Jon Marsh, Vice President of Product, Oncam. “The robust and attractive outdoor model has been tailor-made for true panoramic views, with both the camera and lens optimized to give customers more pixels on target than any other panoramic camera. The camera has been designed with ease of installation paramount, aimed at simplifying its set up.”. Tags