Press Room Swedish statement at the UN Security Council Briefing on Letter from the United Kingdom National statement delivered by Ambassador Carl Skau on behalf of Sweden at the United Nations Security Council Briefing on Letter from the United Kingdom (S/2018/218), 18 April 2018, New York. 
Mr President, 
Let me begin by thanking the UK for taking the initiative to update the Council today. I also thank the High Representative for Disarmament Affairs, Izumi Nakamitsu, for her comprehensive briefing. 
Mr President, 
Sweden has been clear in condemning, in the strongest terms, the attempted murder of individuals on United Kingdom soil using a nerve agent. We fully stand by the common EU position on this matter and we share the United Kingdom government's assessment that it is highly likely that the Russian Federation is responsible and that there is no other plausible alternative explanation. We reiterate our strong solidarity with the United Kingdom, our close friend and European Union partner and our support for its ongoing investigation. 
We welcome the open and transparent manner in which the United Kingdom has approached this matter, including by arranging an open briefing yesterday for all member-states. 
We welcome also the continued cooperation between the United Kingdom and the OPCW in full conformity with the Chemical Weapons Convention. We appreciate the OPCW's prompt reaction to the United Kingdom's request and its professional work. Sweden has full confidence in the authoritative findings of the OPCW, which confirm the chemical identity of the toxic chemical. This is a matter of utmost concern. We reiterate our call on the Russian Federation to answer the questions posed by the United Kingdom. 
Let me take this opportunity to underline our full support to the OPCW, the independent organisation charged with overseeing the chemical weapons ban. 
Mr President, 
We once again condemn in the strongest term the use of all chemical weapons, which is repugnant and strictly prohibited under international law. We need to be vigilant in our efforts to ensure that the integrity of the chemical weapons ban is respected. 
I thank you.