Double award success for Idis technology Brentford, Middlesex (UK) 
Idis’s H.265 IR PTZ surveillance camera has achieved the rare distinction of winning two of Germany’s top international design accolades. The innovative camera has scooped both a 2018 international iF Design Award and the Red Dot ‘seal of quality’ Award. 
The annual iF Design Awards is a globally-recognised prize, which this year attracted 6402 entries from 54 countries. The awards have been running since 1954 and this year the panel of independent expert judges selected just 65 winners. 
The Red Dot Award, also dating back to the 1950s, is now one of the most sought-after quality marks for good design. The Red Dot scheme recognises qualities such as ‘ease of use, high level of functionality, attractive appearance and compatibility with the environment’. 
Idis’s double winning entry, the H.265 IR DC-S3883HRX model, provides clearer images using an 8 MP auto focus lens and is equipped with high-powered IR LED for motion detection and image analysis of objects at up to 200 metres at night. With its sleek, ergonomic construction the camera’s horizontally placed lens and IR are designed to reduce camera height and prevent diffuse reflection during tilt moving. This design feature improves usability with notably smooth movement of the lens head. 
Idis’s winning network PTZ also features a 31x AF optical zoom lens (f=6.5 - 202mm) delivering 4K UHD (3840 x 2160) resolution, as well as two-way audio, built-in heater and PoE. In addition, it incorporates Idis Intelligent Codec and MAT (motion adaptive transmission) technology, which delivers savings of up to 90 percent on storage and bandwidth, depending on the scene and resolution. 
James Min, Managing Director, Idis Europe, welcomed the iF and Red Dot Awards attributing Idis’s success to continual investment in product design aimed at superior performance and ease of use. 
“The Idis development team is delighted with these international awards because they recognise the importance that we give to product excellence in surveillance. Our aim is to continually improve on the design, quality and performance of our products and to lead innovation whenever we can.” Email: