Lung cancer is the leading cause of cancer death among both men andwomen, accounting for about one-fifth of all cancer deaths, more thanbreast, prostate and colorectal cancers combined. Approximately10-15% of patients in the US and Europe, and 30-40% of patients inAsia have EGFRm NSCLC. These patients are particularly sensitive totreatment with EGFR-TKIs, which block the cell-signalling pathwaysthat drive the growth of tumour cells. Tumours almost always developresistance to EGFR-TKI treatment, however, leading to diseaseprogression. Approximately half of patients develop resistance toapproved EGFR-TKIs such as gefitinib, erlotinib and afatinib due tothe EGFR T790M resistance mutation. There is also a need formedicines with improved CNS efficacy, since approximately 25% ofpatients with EGFRm NSCLC have brain metastases at diagnosis,increasing to approximately 40% within two years of diagnosis. 
About Tagrisso 
Tagrisso (osimertinib) is a third-generation, irreversible EGFR-TKIdesigned to inhibit both EGFR-sensitising and EGFR T790M-resistancemutations, with clinical activity against CNS metastases. Tagrisso40mg and 80mg once-daily oral tablets have been approved in the USand Brazil for 1st-line EGFRm advanced NSCLC, and in more than 75countries including the US, EU, Japan and China for patients withEGFR T790M mutation-positive advanced NSCLC. Tagrisso is also beinginvestigated in the adjuvant setting and in combination with othertreatments. 
The FLAURA trial assessed the efficacy and safety of Tagrisso 80mgonce daily vs. standard-of-care EGFR-TKIs (either erlotinib [150mgorally, once daily] or gefitinib [250mg orally, once daily]) inpreviously-untreated patients with locally-advanced or metastaticEGFRm NSCLC. The trial was double-blinded and randomised, with 556patients across 29 countries. 
About AstraZeneca in Lung Cancer 
AstraZeneca is committed to developing medicines to help every patientwith lung cancer. We have three approved medicines and a growingpipeline that targets genetic changes in tumour cells and boosts thepower of the immune response against cancer. Our unrelenting pursuitof science aims to deliver more breakthrough therapies with the goalof extending and improving the lives of patients across all stages ofdisease and lines of therapy. 
About AstraZeneca in Oncology 
AstraZeneca has a deep-rooted heritage in Oncology and offers aquickly-growing portfolio of new medicines that has the potential totransform patients' lives and the Company's future. With at least sixnew medicines to be launched between 2014 and 2020, and a broadpipeline of small molecules and biologics in development, we arecommitted to advance Oncology as a key growth platform forAstraZeneca focused on lung, ovarian, breast and blood cancers. Inaddition to our core capabilities, we actively pursue innovativepartnerships and investments that accelerate the delivery of ourstrategy, as illustrated by our investment in Acerta Pharma inhaematology. 
By harnessing the power of four scientific platforms -Immuno-Oncology, Tumour Drivers and Resistance, DNA Damage Responseand Antibody Drug Conjugates - and by championing the development ofpersonalised combinations, AstraZeneca has the vision to redefinecancer treatment and one day eliminate cancer as a cause of death. 
About AstraZeneca 
AstraZeneca is a global, science-led biopharmaceutical company thatfocuses on the discovery, development and commercialisation ofprescription medicines, primarily for the treatment of diseases inthree therapy areas - Oncology, Cardiovascular, Renal & Metabolismand Respiratory. The Company also is selectively active in the areasof autoimmunity, neuroscience and infection. AstraZeneca operates inover 100 countries and its innovative medicines are used by millionsof patients worldwide. 
For more information, please visit www.astrazeneca.com and follow uson Twitter @AstraZeneca. 
Esra Erkal-Paler UK/Global +44 203 749 5638Karen Birmingham UK/Global +44 203 749 5634Rob Skelding UK/Global +44 203 749 5821Matt Ke...