Clas Ohlson has opened a new store in Tampere, Finland Thu, Apr 19, 2018 15:01 CET 
Today Clas Ohlson opened its new store in Ratina shopping centre in Tampere. The store is Clas Ohlson's 39th store in Finland. 
The new store was opened in connection with the opening of Ratina so there were many eager customers on site who wanted to experience the new shopping centre. 
Country Manager Sampo Päällysaho is pleased that Clas Ohlson now has two stores in Tampere and three stores in the region. 
“The store is located in central Tampere, on the ground floor of the shopping centre, where customers can easily reach us. We are ready to meet our customers and offer them everything they need for the spring,” said Sampo Päällysaho. 
Clas Ohlson's new store in Tampere has a retail space of approximately 1,000 square meters and a catchment area of approximately 310,000 inhabitants. 
For more information on Clas Ohlson’s store network and future store openings, see the detailed list at about.clasohlson.com. 
For more information, please contact: Sara Kraft Westrell, Director of Information and Investor Relations, phone +46 247 649 13 
Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order business based in Insjön, Sweden. This year, we are celebrating 100 years as a business with customers in five markets, more than 4,800 co-workers and annual sales of approximately 8 billion SEK. Our share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. A lot has happened since the start in 1918, but one thing has remained the same over the years; that we want to help and inspire people to improve their everyday lives by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at attractive prices. Read more about our history on clasohlson100.com/en or visit about.clasohlson.com for current events and information. About Us 
Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order business based in Insjön, Sweden. This year, we are celebrating 100 years as a business with customers in five markets, more than 4,800 co-workers and annual sales of approximately 8 billion SEK. Our share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. A lot has happened since the start in 1918, but one thing has remained the same over the years; that we want to help and inspire people to improve their everyday lives by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at attractive prices. Read more about our history on clasohlson100.com/en or visit about.clasohlson.com for current events and information. Contacts