Today Clas Ohlson opened a new store in Gothenburg, Sweden Thu, Apr 19, 2018 15:15 CET 
At 10 am today, Clas Ohlson opened its 89th store in Sweden, as customers entered the new store at Backaplan, Gothenburg. 
The store at Backaplan, on Hisingen in Gothenburg, has been long awaited and is now officially opened. 
“Backaplan is one of the largest shopping centres in Sweden, where we previously haven’t been present, so it feels very good to open up the new store. The project team has done a great job with the preparations and we look forward to welcoming customers into the store,” says Fredrik Uhrbom, Country Manager, Clas Ohlson Sweden. 
Clas Ohlson's store at Backaplan has a retail space of slightly more than 900 square meters and creates an additional shopping opportunity for customers in Gothenburg, especially residents on Hisingen. 
For more information on Clas Ohlson’s store network and future store openings, see the detailed list at about.clasohlson.com. 
For more information, please contact: Sara Kraft Westrell, Director of Information and Investor Relations, phone +46 247 649 13 
Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order business based in Insjön, Sweden. This year, we are celebrating 100 years as a business with customers in five markets, more than 4,800 co-workers and annual sales of approximately 8 billion SEK. Our share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. A lot has happened since the start in 1918, but one thing has remained the same over the years; that we want to help and inspire people to improve their everyday lives by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at attractive prices. Read more about our history on clasohlson100.com/en or visit about.clasohlson.com for current events and information. About Us 
Clas Ohlson was founded in 1918 as a mail order business based in Insjön, Sweden. This year, we are celebrating 100 years as a business with customers in five markets, more than 4,800 co-workers and annual sales of approximately 8 billion SEK. Our share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. A lot has happened since the start in 1918, but one thing has remained the same over the years; that we want to help and inspire people to improve their everyday lives by offering smart, simple, practical solutions at attractive prices. Read more about our history on clasohlson100.com/en or visit about.clasohlson.com for current events and information. Contacts