  Dibba scores for league leaders Hammarby in the Swedish premiershipPhoto: Peter Jonsoon/hammarbyfotboll.se 
Gambian forward Pa Amat Dibba scored a 77th minute goal as Hammarby overwhelmed Brommapojkarna 4-0 last Sunday in the third round of the Swedish football championship. 
The 30 year-old had just been on the pitch for 11 minutes when he struck goal number four to ensure Hammarby’s top position in the standings. 
Other Africans on the score sheet in the 3rd round last weekend were Maic Sema of DR Congolese extraction who grabbed an qualiser for Sundsvall four minutes from time in a 2-2 match against champions Malmo, who had Carlos Stranberg of Mozambican heritage as one of its goalscorers. 
Sierra Leone’s Alhassan Kamara hit his first of the season when he opened the scoring for Hacken in stoppage time in the first half in a 3-0 victory over Dalkurd while Ertitrean international Henok Gotimom was not on the scoresheet but he set up the two goals that saw AIK beat Djurgarden 2-0. 
In the first division or Superettan ( also in its 3rd round), which is the country’s second most important football league, Helsingborg beat Frej 5-1 with Ghanaian attacker Mamudo Moro lifting the curtains after 15 minutes for the winners. 
Two early African goals laid the ground for Eskilstuna’s 4-0 drubbing of Varnamo. Nigeria’s Onyedikachuwu Nnamani and Guinean striker Ousmane Camara scored in the 2nd and 16th minutes to lead the onslaught. 
Norrby continued its fine run overcoming Halmstad 2-0 in an away match in which midfielder Abdelrahman Saidi of Algerian extraction banged in one of the goals. 
The Norwegian premiership, the Eliteserien, also had its share of African goalpoachers over the weekend. 
Liberian striker Sam Johnson and Nigerian forward Chidera Ejuke hit one apiece in Valerenga’s 6-1 drubbing of IK Start. Johnson made it 2-0 after 25 minutes while Ejuke took the score to 4-1 in the 53rd minute. 
Molde maintained its top spot with a 2-1 win over Lillestrom. Senegalese striker Ibrahim Wadji secured the points with the match winner in added time. Ivory Coast’s Daouda Bamba was on target twice as his club Kristiansund was held to a 3-all draw by Sandefjord. 
One step below in the first division, Akinbola Akinyemi of Nigerian heritage provided the winner in injury time as Notodden beat Nest-Sotra 2-1 while Ghanaian Dennis Antwi scored for Asane in a 1-1 match against Hamkam. Related 
Filed under News , Sport  