9 lediga jobb på företaget QA Analyst Deviations to Cepheid 
The Quality department at Cepheid is growing and is therefore looking for a QA Analyst who is going to support the Technical Operations and Manufacturing management. As a Quality Analyst you will support the operations with QA related activities with focus on deviations on products, and processes. You scrutinize documents and monitor manufacturing deviations, evaluate actions, and suggest improvements.As a QA Analyst you work closely with departments as Failure Investigation, Manufacturing, Supply Chain and Quality. As a QA Analyst you are a supportive function, and it is of great importance that you are communicative, thorough and systematic. Work responsibilities Exercises judgment within defined standards and procedures to determine appropriate actions Review documentation generated in Operations Recommend changes and process improvements Qualifications: University degree in engineering, science or equivalent. At least 2 years of experience in Quality or manufacturing in quality assured operations Excellent skills in English and Swedish both written and spoken Meritorious: GMP GDP To be success full in this role we think that you have personal attributes such as: Communicative Self-motivated with ability to own initiatives Careful and thorough Employment: Open ended full time Last date of application: 2nd May 2018. For information: In this recruitment Cepheid is collaborating with Dfind Science & Engineering. For questions please contact responsible recruitment consultant Rebecca Dovega 072-547 99 19. Apply via www.dfind.se/science-engineering as soon as possible. Organization and Business description: Cepheid is one of the fastest growing companies in molecular diagnostics. The company's unique diagnostic platform is used throughout the world, making a difference for patients as diagnosis and choice of treatment is facilitated by the test results. Cepheid offers a broad range of diagnostic products in virology, bacteriology and oncology that can meet tomorrow's demands for safe, fast and flexible diagnostic both in Western countries and in countries with limited resources. Globally, the company is represented by its headquarters in Sunnyvale, California, sales and marketing offices in Toulouse, France and technology and chemistry center in Bothell, Washington. Cepheid AB, part of the global Danaher group, is located in Solna, Sweden and has around 250 employees, mainly in production, quality control, research and development. 