Press Room Note to members of the media: Programme for UN Secretary-General and Security Council working meeting and visit in Sweden 20–23 April 2018 The annual   with the UN Secretary-General and the Security Council will be held at Dag Hammarskjöld's farm Backåkra in Skåne on 21–23 April 2018. Afterwards, UN   continue to Uppsala and Stockholm. Media programme Friday 20 April 
Visit to the European Spallation Source (ESS), Lund Members of the Security Council visit the European Spallation Source (ESS) in Lund. This is a unique material research facility based on the world's most powerful neutron source. Sweden and Denmark are the host countries of the ESS, which is one of Europe's largest infrastructure projects for research. The visit provides an opportunity to examine the interplay between technological development and global challenges, and how research and development can be used to meet current problems and crises. 
The media will have the opportunity to cover the beginning of the visit. Saturday 21 April 
Secretary-General and Security Council   at Backåkra Besides the Secretary-General and members of the Security Council,   Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström will be on hand in connection with the  .Photo opportunity on arrival. 
Press briefing/doorstep with   Löfven,   Guterres, Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and President of the UN Security Council, Peru's UN Ambassador Gustavo Meza-Cuadra. Sunday 22 April 
Secretary-General visits Uppsala Secretary-General António Guterres delivers   Lecture at Uppsala Castle. Since 1998, the Lecture has been an annual event held in memory of Dag Hammarskjöld and the values he stood for in his deeds and actions. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström and Minister for International Development Cooperation and Climate and Deputy Prime Minister Isabella Lövin will attend on behalf of the Government. In addition to the Lecture, the Secretary-General will take part in a wreath-laying ceremony at Dag Hammarskjöld's grave and have a meeting with Crown Princess Victoria. 
A separate press invitation will be sent by the co-organisers,   Foundation and Uppsala University. Monday 23 April