Sök Logga in Mitt konto Tim Bergling, a.k.a. Avicii, has died at 28 in Oman. Tributes are being paid from around the world for who he was and what he did, including from Madonna and David Guetta. Foto: (C) PELLE T NILSSON / (C) PELLE T NILSSON/STELLA PICTURES Swedish artist Zara Larsson is one of those paying tribute to Avicii. In an uncommonly personal post on her Instagram, she wrote that it is “crazy how someone I don’t even know can be a part of my life like that. You left us way too early, Tim.” Foto: ANETTE LINDFORS PERSSON / IBL BILDBYRÅ / IBL BILDBYRÅ / IBLAB Stefan Löfven, Sweden’s Prime Minister, also commented on Avicii’s sudden death, “He was one of Sweden’s greatest musical geniuses in modern times. My thoughts go to his loved ones, family and friends.” Foto: CHRISTINE OLSSON/TT / TT NYHETSBYRÅN Annie Lööf, Swedish center party leader, also wrote about the tragic death, “Avicii was hands down one of the greatest Swedes on the global stage in the last decade.” Foto: ANNA-KARIN NILSSON / ANNA-KARIN NILSSON EXPRESSEN Avicii played at the wedding of Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia in 2015. The couple left their condolences after Friday’s tragic announcement. This photo was taken at Avicii’s last Swedish show in Malmö in the summer of 2016. Foto: ALEX LJUNGDAHL Prince Carl Philip behind Tim “Avicii” Bergling during the wedding of Carl Philip and Sofia in 2015. Foto: SVEN LINDWALL Swedish celebrities and politicians pay tribute to Avicii Publicerad 
Tim Bergling, a.k.a. Avicii, has died. 
Only 28 years old, Avicii was already one of the biggest Swedish pop stars ever. 
Now Swedish artists, politicians and the royal family are paying tribute to Tim Bergling. 
“I’ve cried, made out and danced to probably every single song of his,” posted Zara Larsson on her Instagram. 
The tragic news came on Friday. Tim Bergling, a.k.a. Avicii, has died. The house music star was on vacation in Oman with friends when he was found dead. He was 28. 
Artists around the world are paying tribute to Avicii, including Madonna and David Guetta, and even in his home country of Sweden, artists, politicians and the royal family are stepping forward to honor the fellow Swede. 
Artist Zara Larsson wrote an uncharacteristically personal text about Avicii to her 4.6 million Instagram followers: 
“This guy’s music is the soundtrack to my teenage years. Never got a chance to meet him but I’ve been crying to, making out to, dancing to probably every single song of his. Crazy how someone I don’t even know can be a part of my life like that. You left us way too early, Tim. Hope you make music wherever you soul might be. Truly a legend.” https://www.instagram.com/p/Bh0Z8wmhpQi/?hl=sv&taken-by=zaralarsson 
The Swedish royal family also paid tribute. 
Avicii played at the wedding of Sweden’s Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia in 2015. After the tragic announcement on Friday, the royal family was quick to send their condolences. 
“We are deeply saddened to hear of the death of Tim Bergling,” wrote Prince Carl Philip and Princess Sofia in a joint statement. “We are grateful that we got to know him and admired him as an artist and the great person he was.” 
Swedish Prime Minister Stefan Löfven posted a short comment on Instagram after the announcement. 
“I heard the sad announcement that Tim Bergling, also known as Avicii, has died,” wrote the Prime Minister. “He was one of Sweden’s greatest musical geniuses in modern times. My thoughts go to his loved ones, family and friends.” https://www.instagram.com/p/BhzZwFBgYfg/?hl=sv&taken-by=stefanlofven 
Swedish Center party leader Annie Lööf took to Twitter to express her grief. 
“Many of us have exercised, danced and partied to ‘Wake me up’, ’Waiting for love’ and many more. Rest in peace, Tim Bergling,” wrote the politician. https://twitter.com/annieloof/status/987384461888286720 
Musical artist Tommy Körberg, internationally known for his role in the musical “Chess”, has a son with Anki Lidén, Tim Bergling’s mother. 
“It’s tragic, considering his mother and his brother,” commented Tommy Körberg about the death. “We hung out sometimes. I’ve known him since he was little.” 
He continues, “This is a tough industry.” Relaterade ämnen