Hikvision honoured with the Red Dot Award 2018 Hangzhou, China Hikvision MR-Q3-LR series Intelligent Warehouse Robot 
Hikvision's MR-Q3-LR series of intelligent warehouse robots recently stood out from the submissions from 59 countries and won the Red Dot Award: Product Design 2018. 
The robots boast concise and versatile design. By adopting the concept of "handling complexity by simplicity", Hikvision's MR-Q3-LR series of intelligent warehouse robots provides excellent technical performance and human-machine interaction capabilities. In addition, the exquisite workmanship and the flexible customization feature also help the series win the heart of the jurors. 
Thanks to the frame made of aluminum alloy, the robot is robust yet light. The two-wheel differential drive features flexible motion control, which ensures smooth movement of robots, and the visual and inertial navigation (which will be upgraded to laser navigation) enables precise localisation by robots. The IP54 protection level allows the robots to function well even in harsh environments. 
Hikvision's intelligent warehouse robots are a prime example of mobile robots being used on a large scale. Together with machine vision products, mobile robots have been widely used in numerous sectors including electronic equipment manufacturing, automotive manufacturing, e-commerce logistics, retail, third-party logistics, food and beverage, photovoltaic, and medical. 
Nearly 800 Hikvision intelligent warehouse robots have been employed in the Hikvision Tonglu security industry base for its phase I and II projects to provide strong warehouse and logistics support for the base which has a daily output value of more than RMB 100 million. This solution drastically reduces labour intensity and increases production efficiency and quality. In addition, the big data optimisation technology is applied to optimise the warehouse layout, saving approximately 58% in manpower and boosting efficiency by 84%. 
Founded in Germany in 1955, the Red Dot Design Award is one of the top three internationally recognised awards in industrial design, along with the iF Design Award of Germany and the IDEA Awards of the USA. The Red Dot Award is renowned for its stringent evaluation criteria. It comprises three awards in the disciplines of Product Design, Communication Design, and Design Concept. The selected product must have innovative features that set it apart from other similar products and make it the leader in its industry. Email: