Former flying squad DCI joins BSIA to head up intelligence sharing unit Worcester, UK 
The British Security Industry Association (BSIA) welcomes former Detective Chief Inspector Sarah Staff to its ranks as the new Head of Safercash. 
Recently retired from a 30 year career with the Metropolitan Police, Sarah moved up from being a Police Constable patrolling the streets of North London in the mid-1990’s to becoming one of only two women to hold the role of Detective Chief Inspector in charge of the Flying Squad, tackling serious and organised crime. Sarah is now bringing her skills and work ethos to the Safercash team within the BSIA. 
Safercash is part of the BSIA’s intelligence sharing security initiative which aims to strengthen the collaborative work between UK Law Enforcement and industry by preventing and detecting crime in partnership. The unit - staffed by former serving members of the Police Service and seconded Police Analysts working within their Regional Police areas - is able to draw together vital information and intelligence. This joint initiative assists at an international, national and regional level working closely in regular partnership with Law Enforcement and industry partners. This collaborative work supports Police investigations with analytical crime data for intervention, detection and prosecutions. 
James Kelly, Chief Executive of the BSIA, said: “We are delighted to announce the appointment of Sarah Staff as the new Head of Safercash. Sarah brings her years of experience at the highest level of her profession into the team at a time when collaboration across the agencies is as essential as ever in helping us to understand the offending patterns and methods used by criminals. The Safercash approach helps us to draw together improved prevention methods helping to reduce the overall risk and costs of these crimes to both industry and the wider community.” 
Upon her appointment, Sarah Staff said: “I’m really delighted to be taking on the role of Head of Safercash. The impact of these crimes has a far reaching resonance and at a time when UK Law Enforcement is facing huge demands with fewer resources, Safercash is an excellent collaboration to provide additional resources through the support of industry partners. These crimes have a real impact on local communities, fund other criminal enterprises and in many cases, untold costs to both peoples’ lives and their property. I am looking forward to leading on such an invaluable service and hope to continue to further reduce the impact of these crimes through continued collaboration." Email: