The President of Zimbabwe visits Dahua HQ Hangzhou, China Chairman Fu Liquan (center-Left) and VP/GM Michael Chen (center-Right) standing by the sides of President Emmerson Mnangagwa 
The President of Zimbabwe, Emmerson Mnangagwa, led a delegation from Zimbabwe to visit Dahua Technology headquarters on April 6, 2018. Chairman, Fu Liquan, and VP & General Manager of Dahua Overseas Business, Michael Chen, warmly received the honourable guests. 
Invited by Chinese President Xi Jinping, President Mnangagwa engaged in his first foreign affairs visit to a country outside of Africa since taking office in November 2017. President Mnangagwa has been actively promoting economic reconstruction, seeking opportunities for economic development and investment. 
Mr. Fu Liquan warmly welcomed President Mnangagwa and his delegation from Zimbabwe. Chairman Fu introduced Dahua Technology’s core competence in video surveillance as well as Dahua Technology’s business development in Africa to the visiting guests. He said that Dahua Technology has continuously maintained healthy relationship with the local Zimbabwe market, and in the future, Dahua Technology looks forward to contributing its strengths to the economic development in Zimbabwe. He also sent his wishes to President Mnangagwa for a successful conclusion to his China visit. 
President Mnangagwa expressed his gratitude for having an opportunity to visit Dahua Technology headquarters. He stated that the Dahua showroom had left him a strong and lasting impression and was also an eye opener. Dahua Technology possesses advanced technologies and products with the capability to uphold the law and ensure a peaceful society, protect against criminal acts in airports and supermarkets, and even defend the safety of national borders. President Mnangagwa believes these strengths can assist Zimbabwe in its rapid development and advancement. Dahua Technology hopes that it can participate in the country’s reforms. 
Dahua Technology entered the African market in 2008, where it has achieved stable business growth. Starting in 2015, Dahua Technology successively established subsidiaries in South Africa, Kenya, Tunisia, Morocco, thus providing sales and technical support to the African market directly. Dahua Technology initiated its business in Zimbabwe in 2014, and gradually expanded its local channel network. Today, the momentum of development has been set, allowing Dahua Technology to engage deeper into the local security market, and better serve local customers. Email: