  437240 A look at the pillars and the nature of the geometry of modern Islamic civilization (Part 2) Rasa – A faculty member of the Islamic Sciences Academy of Qom referred to the pillars of the Islamic civilization continued his discussion on the pillars and the nature of the geometry of modern Islamic civilization. 
RNA – According to Vasael.ir, Hujjat al-Islam Mostafa Jamali, a faculty member of the Islamic Sciences Academy of Qom, said three necessary levels of education and science concerning the engineering of Islamic civilization must be deduced and created in a coordinated manner in order to bring about the realization of this dimension of Islamic civilization. 
These three levels are: 
(A) The Jurisprudence of Civilization : The first layer of deduction is the jurisprudence of civilization. The meaning of the term “jurisprudence of civilization” is jurisprudence which can deduce all the instruments of civilization and social systems from Islam such as the economic system, the political system, the cultural system, the judicial system, etc. Martyr Ayatollah Muhammad-Baqir al-Sadr (d. 1980) explained the necessity of the deduction of these systems. Even higher than this, the jurisprudence of civilization is a jurisprudence that, in addition to outlining the desirable conditions of civilization and the deduction of the systems of civilization, can provide the general equation for the change of the present situation of civilization into a desirable situation and express the course of fate of this change. 
In other words, the jurisprudence of civilization is the jurisprudence of wilāyah (guardianship) and the guardianship of society on the scale of civilization. It is obvious, however, that in order to deduce such jurisprudence from the sources of religion, it is necessary for serious development and progress to occur in the methods of deduction in the Islamic Seminaries because the capacity of the existing jurisprudence is to deduce individual judgements. 
(B) The Network of Islamic Sciences : The second layer of the civilization-building thought of Islam is the production of Islamic sciences which have been formed, on one hand, based on the jurisprudence of civilization and, on the other hand, have higher efficiency in bringing about a change in society towards the realization of an Islamic civilization. Therefore, the two constraints of Islamism and efficiency in the development of servitude are considered to be a measure of the validity and legitimacy of Islamic sciences. It is clear that the production of such a network of efficient sciences is possible only in the light of the management of the network of education and research so that in the light of this, it is possible to benefit from the completion of the capacities of the Islamic world in the realization of an Islamic civilization. 
(C) Iranian-Islamic Model of Progress : The third layer of the civilization-building thought of Islam is the achievement of the Islamic-Iranian model for progress and modeling in line with the original model. Models which have been formed on the basis of the jurisprudence of civilization and Islamic sciences on one hand, and, on the other hand, by calculating the objective situation of each region or country, they can express their particular version of the coordinated change in that region. The work that is currently being done for Islamic countries is based on liberal-capitalist development models and the development of their countries is managed in regard to the development of their goals on a global scale. 
This article will be continued… 
Rasa News Agency