Time : Wednesday, March 21, 2018 News ID: 436940 Syria in Past 24 Hours: Army Dispatches Large Convoy of Forces, Equipment to Homs Rasa - The Syrian army sent a large number of forces and military equipment to Eastern Homs after repelling a heavy offensive of the ISIL terrorists on its bases near T2 base. RNA - The Syrian army sent a large number of forces and military equipment to Eastern Homs after repelling a heavy offensive of the ISIL terrorists on its bases near T2 base. Homs Field sources reported on Tuesday that the Syrian army has dispatched hundreds of forces, several vehicles and military equipment from Badiyeh (desert) in Palmyra to regions near T2. They noted that the army convoy was dispatched to the region after ISIL's heavy attack against the Syrian military forces in the region, adding that Damascus seeks to reinvigorate its positions and purge the remaining terrorists from the region in imminent operations. Damascus The Syrian army initiated a fresh phase of operations to drive a wedge between terrorist bastions in the Southern part of Eastern Ghouta. The Syrian army forces targeted the terrorists' positions in Hazeh and the two towns of Zmelka and Arabayn South of Eastern Ghouta with heavy fire on Tuesday, inflicting losses on the militants. Field sources also said that the Syrian army soldiers have reinvigorated their military presence in the two towns of Sabqa and Kafr Batna, adding that the army seeks to drive a wedge between Ein Tarma and the town of Zmalka by advancing in Wadi Ein Tarma. Also in the past 24 hours, the terrorists stationed in Harasta in Eastern Ghouta will leave the region to Idlib, sources said as militants are making their last attempts to break the army's siege. The Syrian army forces engaged in heavy clashes with the terrorists who had attacked their positions in Harasta-Arabayn-Modira front in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus on Monday, repelling their offensive after killing a number of militants. Meantime, the Syrian army soldiers clashed with other terrorists who had attacked their bases in Misraba South of Eastern Ghouta, repulsing their offensive. Also, field sources reported that the army has reached a preliminary agreement with the terrorists in Harasta to evacuate them from the region towards Idlib. Also, informed sources said on Tuesday that the US and Turkey are seeking to transfer the foreign militants from Eastern Ghouta of Damascus to Idlib as they are facing the Syrian army's rapid advances in the region. The sources said that after the army's expanding march in Eastern Ghouta and failure of the US-Israeli plot to conduct an effective offensive on Damascus, the US command center has rushed to to evacuate allied militants and agents operating for Israel, Jordan and NATO from the region. They mentioned although the Turkish officials have said they are ready to help evacuation of al-Nusra Front (Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at or the Levant Liberation Board) terrorists from Eastern Ghouta to take them to Idlib, this seems to be a cover as they really mean to rescue their special foreign forces that among the ranks of the Al-Qaeda-affiliatetd Al-Nusra in Syria. "Therefore, the US has ordered Jeish al-Islam, Faylaq al-Rahman and other terrorist groups to allow evacuation of civilians from Eastern Ghouta to army-held regions in a bid to provide the ground for these foreign agents to also leave Ghouta in disguise and enable the Turkish intelligence service to send them to specified regions in al-Tanf and Northern Syria which are under the control of the US troops," they said. According to the sources, a sum of 960 foreign agents have so far been transferred to these specific regions after the terrorist groups allowed evacuation of civilians on March 15. Also in the past 24 hours, the Syrian army gained control over more regions during the military operations in the Southern part of Eastern Ghouta of Damascus, trying to drive a wedge between the terrorist bastions in the region. The Syrian army forces engaged in clashes with the terrorists in the depth of Eastern Ghouta, and retook control of several regions during the march in Wadi Ein Tarma. A field source said that the Syrian army units are advancing in Wadi Ein Tarma in several fronts, adding that the army has won back control of half of the region. Also, other Syrian army soldiers are advancing towards the town of Ein Tarma. Aleppo The Turkish army and Ankara-backed militants discovered and seized a large underground cache of US-made weapons and ammunition of the Kurdish forces in Afrin during military operations in the region. Turkish sources reported on Tuesday that the Ankara-affiliated militants found the cache in the village of Jowik in Northwestern Afrin in 12 chambers which included thousands of US-made arms and ammunition. They noted that the cache was in a 150-meter-long cement tunnel, adding that it included anti-aircraft and anti-armor missiles, tanks, TOW missiles, mortars and rockets. Also, 2,700 civilians left Afrin to Manbij in Aleppo province after the Turkish army and its affiliated militants occupied the town, media reports said. According to Fars News Agancy, the Arabic-language website of RT news reported that 2,700 civilians, including 200 families, fled Afrin to Manbij in Northern Syria on Monday afternoon. The development came after the Turkish army and Ankara-backed militants gained control of the town. Meantime, field sources said that the Ankara-backed militants still continue destruction and plundering of Afrin. Also, the UN announced that 104,000 people have fled Afrin so far while 10,000 civilians are trying to reach regions which are under the Syrian government control. Deir Ezzur The US has established a new base in Southeastern Deir Ezzur and dispatched weapons and military equipment to the region, field sources said as Russia warned of American forces' possible attack on Syrian army positions. The sources said on Tuesday that the US forces have built a new and advanced military base in al-Omar oilfield in Southeastern Deir Ezzur, adding that they have also transferred a large volume of arms and equipment, including missiles, military vehicles and bridge equipment to the regions of their deployment in Koniko oilfield, al-Omar oilfield and al-Jafreh. Meantime, the Washington-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) sent a number of their forces to the regions near the Syrian army positions in the villages of Jiya, Salehiyeh and al-Tabiyeh. Hama The Syrian army's air and ground forces launched joint operations on the al-Nusra Front in Northern and Western Hama, inflicting tens of losses on the terrorists. The Syrian air force pounded the al-Nusra positions and moves in the village of al-Manareh in Sahl al-Qab region as well as Latmin, Kafr Zita and the nearby areas in Northern Hama and the village of Tal al-Sakhar in Northwestern Hama. Meantime, the Syrian army's artillery and missile units attacked terrorists' positions in al-Habit, Tal al-Sakhar, al-Latamineh, Kafr Zita and the roads used by the militants to send weapons to their comrades in Sahl al-Qab region, specially the villages of al-Qarqour, al-Amiqah and al-Tanjerah. During the operations, tens of terrorists were killed and a large number of their arms and military equipment were smashed. Dara'a Reports from Southern Syria said a sum of 18 regions in Dara'a province joined the peace plan as Syrian and Russian officials have increased efforts to establish stability in different parts of Syria. Syrian sources reported on Monday that 18 cities and villages in Dara'a have endrosed the peace agreement after their representatives held meetings with the Syrian government and representatives of Russia's Reconciliation Center in Humeimim. These regions include Sheikh Miskin, al-Sanamin, Atman, Um al-Mayazin, Bali, al-Soymerah, al-Shaqraniyeh, al-Masmiyeh, al-Jizeh, Nasib, Aqelin, Mankat al-Hatab, Kamouneh, Manshiyeh al-Sabil, Um Walad, Bawizan, Qaiteh and Boraq. The peace agreement stresses support for the Syrian army's campaign against terrorism, prevention of terrorists' move to civilian-populated regions and revival of state service to these areas.