Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei says the Islamic Republic of Iran has well managed to defuse a plot by the United States to spread terrorism and cause rifts in the Middle East region to avert attention from the Zionist regime of Israel.
“The United States created terrorist groups like Daesh in the region in a bid to distract public attention from the Zionist regime. The United States either does not want or cannot ensure security in the Middle East,” the Leader said in an address to a huge gathering of pilgrims in the holy Iranian city of Mashhad on Wednesday on the first day of the Iranian New Year.
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say that Western countries have failed to establish security and stability in Afghanistan, stressing that Tehran has offered assistance to regional countries based on good faith.
The Leader pointed out that Iran has managed to cleanse many parts of the Middle East from the presence of terrorists.
“Iran has never sought to meddle in the internal affairs of other countries,” he stated.
‘Iran has great, extensive capacities still untapped’
Elsewhere in his remarks, Ayatollah Khamenei pointed to the great potential that the country enjoys, emphasizing that all national problems can be solved by the youth people and through self-reliance.
“The Iranian nation has been able to fulfill the main principles of the (1979) Islamic Revolution. Our revolution toppled the domination of colonial powers over Iran… Before the Islamic Revolution, governments in Iran were brought to power by foreigners,” the Leader said.
'Iran is the world's most independent nation'
Ayatollah Khamenei also described Iran as the most independent nation in the world, stressing that all Iranians enjoy freedom within the framework of the country’s constitution.
“No Iranian faces pressure or strain because of having different opinions about the establishment. Iranian youths feel confident and independent nowadays. There is still work to be done regarding justice in Iran,” he commented.
The Leader said Iran is much better off than many other countries concerning education and healthcare, saying the gap between various classes of the Iranian society has been reduced following the Islamic Revolution.
He warned that enemies are trying to make people disappointed in the establishment through propaganda, stressing that Iran has had a desirable record in terms of its gross domestic product (GDP).
Ayatollah Khamenei said educated young Iranians provide a huge capacity for the country, calling for the full exploitation of their capabilities.
The Leader also demanded that the country’s geographical capacities, energy resources and mineral reserves be tapped, underlining that Iranian youths are able to so many great things.
“Iran’s economy must focus on domestic production. We should not depend on help from outside but work inside the country. We need to fight the pockets of corrupt people in the country fiercely… We need to put an end to the dependence of the country’s economy on oil. We should be zealous in supporting our domestic products and national economy,” Ayatollah Khamenei said.
He also urged both the Iranian nation and authorities to fully support Iranian-made products, calling on Iranian diplomats to facilitate the export of such commodities.
“Authorities must manage and monitor imports properly. The government must manage what is to be imported and what is not,” Ayatollah Khamenei said.
In his televised message to the nation on Tuesday on the occasion of the New Year, Ayatollah Khamenei called on the entire nation to dedicate their efforts to promoting domestic production, which he described as “pivotal” and the key to resolving many of the country’s economic and social woes.
MG
