Time : Sunday, March 18, 2018 News ID: 436905 UN's acknowledgment of the bias of Western media on the parties involved in Syria Rasa – In an exclusive report for Rasa News Agency, Firas Samuri, a freelance journalist, wrote about the official position of the United Nations on the current events in Eastern Ghoutah and the role of Russia in the Syrian peace settlement. 
RNA – Despite the biased evaluation of Russia’s role in the Syrian peace settlement by the Western governments and mainstream media, the United Nations acknowledges the leadership of Moscow in Syrian humanitarian situation. 
On March 16, 2017, during his speech at a closed meeting on the humanitarian situation on Syria in Geneva, Ali al-Za’tari, the United Nations Resident Coordinator in Syria, noted that the Russian Reconciliation Centre leading role in the evacuation of civilians from Eastern Ghoutah. He also emphasized the full assistance of the Reconciliation Centre officers to the international observers in the area of operation. 
In particular, Za’tari expressed his gratitude to the Centre’s members for the support in the delivery of four humanitarian convoys to the citizens of Eastern Ghoutah since February. He also stressed the decisive actions of the Russian servicemen that prevented any losses among the United Nations and International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) personnel, as well as locals during the Hay’at Tahrir al-Sham (HTS) militants mortar shell at a humanitarian action in Douma, on March 16. 
The United Nations coordinator focused the audience’s attention on the blocking of the humanitarian corridors by the militants. “The jihadists constantly harass the locals, seize the humanitarian aid, and distribute it among themselves,” Ali al-Za’tari added. 
In conclusion, he expressed his concern over the situation around the Rukban refugee camp, located in the American-run 55-kilometre area near al-Tanf. Despite the existence of permission from the Syrian authorities the United Nations humanitarian convoys cannot reach the region in the absence of written guarantees for their security from the American side. 
112/940