Time : Friday, March 23, 2018 News ID: 436960 Qom’s Friday Prayer Leader: Putting trust in foreigners will hinder Iran’s progress Rasa – Ayatollah Sa’idi said that following the policies of the World Bank, being entrapped in some conventions and treaties, and trusting foreigners are obstacles to the country’s progress and said, “Another obstacle is the neglect of internal economic development, since wealth generation is possible on the basis of internal activity and borrowing from global organizations won’t solve the country’s economic problems.” RNA – In his Friday prayer sermon delivered to a large and fervent crowd of believers in Qom’s Qods Prayer Hall, Ayatollah Sayyed Mohammad Sa’idi referred to the verses of the Holy Quran, said, “Muslims must not have a close relationship with the non-believers who are stubborn and insist on enmity with Islam. Of course, we can have a rational relationship with the non-believers who don’t have these traits and don’t display animosity towards Islam.” The custodian of the Holy Shrine of Lady Fatimah al-Ma’sumah added that the Islamic ummah must unite against the non-believers who attack the Muslims, such as the Zionist regime, which has committed crimes against the Palestinians and usurped their rights for many years. Any government, which is considered as an Islamic government and which establishes relations with Israel, is contrary to Quranic teachings. Referring to the words of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution at the Holy Shrine of Imam al-Ridha on Norouz, the Iranian New Year, he stated, “[Ayatollah Khamenei] offered a comprehensive analysis of the road map for Iran during the year 1397 and took a look at the accomplishment of the fundamental principles of the Islamic Revolution over the past four decades. He described the capacities and obstacles facing Iran and spoke to the authorities and the people, without flattery, that all aspects of it must be investigated.” Ayatollah Sa’idi stressed that the words of the Supreme Leader at the beginning of the new year must be revisited and the officials and the people must derive their duties and responsibilities from them and act upon them. Regarding the fundamental principles of the Islamic Revolution, the Supreme Leader said that throughout the past forty years, the people have protected the main slogans of the Revolution with the same liveliness and strength as at the beginning.” The representative of the Supreme Leader in Qom added, “The people protect these fundamental principles with all their being because they regard the Revolution as their own. The performance of the slogans of the Revolution over the past forty years is acceptable and the Islamic Republic has tried to provide justice and progress, but the expected justice is greater than that. Due to the ideals of the Revolution, the arrogant powers seek to transform the Revolution and we must be vigilant.” His Eminence said that the territorial integrity of the Islamic Republic of Iran is one of its unused capacities and noted, “Sufficient attention has not paid to the marine economy and benefiting from the capacity of neighbouring countries to expand the economy. The other capacity is the neglect of natural resources, such as oil and gas, which the enemies want to use in order to dominate.” Ayatollah Sa’idi said, “An economy without oil is difficult but it can lead to the strengthening of the economy of the country. If neglected capacities are used properly, the country can obtain a good position in the world. The lack of belief and importance by some officials to the capacities of the country is one of the barriers and the country’s greatest challenge is the challenge of the mentality of management.” He said that following the policies of the World Bank, being entrapped in some conventions and treaties, and trusting foreigners are obstacles to the country’s progress and said, “Another obstacle is the neglect of internal economic development, since wealth generation is possible on the basis of internal activity and borrowing from global organizations won’t solve the country’s economic problems.” Referring to the slogan of this year “Support for Iranian Products,” he expressed the need to support various Iranian goods, including support for increasing domestic production and improving domestic quality, which are a major demand of the people and said, “Iranian goods must meet the needs and tastes of the current era. Marketing, paying attention to the export of Iranian goods, reducing the prices and encouraging competition of Iranian products are also very important.” Ayatollah Sa’idi referred to the treachery of the United States against Iran and stated, “The Islamic Republic raises the flag of the dignity and authority of the Iranian nation in the region and the arrogant powers and its allies were badly defeated by the dignity of Islam. The presence of Iran in the region, at the request of governments and the people of the region, has rational justification.” He added, “The Supreme Leader said that all the problems facing the country can be solved and there are no problems in which the key to solving it is in the hands of foreigners. The forty years of the Revolution was a period of maturity and wasn’t a period of aging. In all fields, the youth are the capital and the hope and joy of the country and the authorities must use them.” The Iranian cleric emphasized, “According to the Supreme Leader, all the problems will be resolved though divine grace. Enriching the minds of young people is considered as more important the enrichment of nuclear energy and this has made the enemies angry.”