Time : Friday, March 23, 2018 News ID: 436967 Iranian FM Vows to Make Vigorous Efforts to Implement Leader's Guidelines to Support Domestic Production Rasa - The Iranian foreign ministry in a statement underlined its utmost efforts to help implementation of the Supreme Leader's guidelines to support home-made products. RNA - "Iran's Foreign Ministry has changed its structure to facilitate achieving economic priorities and to increase non-oil exports based on policies issued by Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei. Considering the situation of the country, and inviting all administrations to be united and integrated, to remove investment attraction roadblocks and to increase exports, Foreign Ministry voices its readiness to support economic activists and to facilitate developing economic and trade relations," the statement said on Thursday. Iran's geographical position -- as the path to connect East to West and North to South -- enjoys great capacities, the ministry said, adding, "Taking advantage of the potentials will prepare opportunities for developing Iran and the regional countries." Foreign Ministry said it aims to facilitate signing bilateral and multilateral economic agreement with neighboring countries and trade unions like Eurasia and newcomer economies. "The ministry also aims to focus on developing foreign relations, and economic cooperation in energy, transit, attracting technology, investment and foreign tourists and non-oil exports to create employment, to increase Iranian goods," the statement read. According to Fars News Agancy, in a televised address to felicitate the nation on the advent of the New Persian Year on Tuesday night, Ayatollah Khamenei named the Iranian New Year as the year of 'Support for Iranian Products' to ask both the nation and the state officials to make industrious efforts to promote domestic production. The Leader said improvement of domestic production would be the cornerstone of a better national economy that could lower the rate of unemployment and reduce social vulnerabilities. "If national production is accelerated, many problems will be resolved. I have chosen this as the center of this year’s slogan. This year’s slogan is “Support for Iranian Products”: “The Year of Support for Iranian Products.” This is not only related to officials, all people from various social backgrounds can help in this area, and they can enter the arena in the real sense of the word. Of course, there are five, six dimensions for this support. By Allah’s favor, I will expand on these dimensions in my speech. God willing, I will discuss the things that people from various social backgrounds and the various officials of the country can do in this regard," he said.