  436983 Iranian Speaker's Advisor Warns of Israeli, Saudi Plots to Create Crisis in Region Rasa - Advisor to the Iranian Parliament Speaker Hossein Amir Abdollahian warned that Israel and Saudi Arabia have hatched plots in collaboration with the US to foment new crises in the region. RNA - In a twitter message, Amir Abdollahian lashed at the US and Israeli policies aimed at creating more crisis in the region. “Relying on Donald Trump feeble America, Riyadh and Tel-Aviv are entertaining a new ‘crisis-making policy’ in the wider Middle East,” he wrote. "The hungry cat dreams of mice!" Amir Abdollahian added. He also reiterated that Iran will continue to defend its national and regional security. "Iran defends national/regional collective security as well as its allies with utmost power and authority," Amir Abdollahian underlined. Amir Abdollahian had earlier this month blasted Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman for his anti-Iran rhetoric, and described him as the most evil person in the region. Amir Abdollahian's remarks came in reaction to bin Salman's remarks against Iran and Turkey. According to Fars News Agancy, an Egyptian newspaper has quoted bin Salman as describing Iran and Turkey as part of a "triangle of evil" in region, during a visit to Cairo on his first foreign trip since becoming heir to the Saudi Kingdom last year. "The Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad bin Salman calls Iran and Turkey the axis of evil all the while when he himself has become the real evil and abomination in the region,” Amir-Abdollahian wrote on his Twitter account. The senior parliamentary advisor reiterated that bin Salman is an overt supporter of terrorism, Zionism and war crimes against the innocent people of the region such as Yemen, Bahrain, Iraq, Lebanon and Syria. Yemen has been torn apart since March 2015 when Saudi Arabia and its allies launched the war on the country to reinstall its former Riyadh-allied government. The military aggression has so far killed over 15,700 Yemenis.