Time : Monday, March 19, 2018 News ID: 436920 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Repels Terrorists' Attack on Gov't Positions in Sweida Rasa - The Syrian army soldiers warded off terrorists' attack on their positions in Sweida province after hours of clashes, inflicting major losses on them. RNA - The terrorists' fierce attack to capture the government forces' positions in Western Sweida was repelled by the strong defense of the Syrian military men. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Sweida The Syrian Army troops fended off a heavy attack of the terrorist groups in Western Sweida, inflicting major losses on the militants on Sunday. The army men warded off the terrorists' offensive near the towns of Ta'ara and al-Dowar in Western Sweida. A large number of terrorists were killed or wounded and a large volume of their military equipment was destroyed in the failed attack. The Arabic-language Rai al-Youm news website reported on Friday that the spying agencies of Israel, US and Saud Arabia were through with the initial phase of an imminent assault by the terrorists in Southern Syria, adding that the secret services of the trio states were to supply military, weapons and logistical support for the terrorists. It went on to say that the terrorists and their backers plan to change the military equations by kicking off a large-scale assault in Dara'a to decrease the Syrian Army's pressure on their comrades in Eastern Ghouta. In the meantime, the Syrian Army has dispatched a large number of fresh forces and a large volume of military equipment to Northern and Northeastern Dara'a, the town of Khirbet Qazala and different neighborhoods of Dara'a city to reinvigorate the government forces. The pro-government resistance forces also dispatched more troops and military hardware to Khan Arnaba and al-Ba'ath regions in Quneitra province to face possible threats of Al-Nusra terrorists. Military experts believe that the army would move towards terrorist-held regions in Dara'a and Quneitra after taking control over Eastern Ghouta, mainly over the key town of Douma. Damascus The Syrian Army troops continued their early morning operation before the start of a daily-based ceasefire on Sunday and imposed control over more regions in the depth of Eastern Ghouta. The army men stormed terrorists' strongholds North of the town of al-Reihan and seized control over Farabi School Building. The army units further captured Tal Kurdi settlement and a large part of Farms Northeast of Tal Kurdi. A large number of terrorists were killed or wounded and a large volume of arms and ammunition were destroyed in the attack. Meantime, scores of Faylaq al-Rahman terrorists laid down arms and surrendered to the Syrian Army amid the government forces' rapid advances near the last strongholds of the militants in Eastern Ghouta, field sources reported on Sunday. At least 20 terrorists of Faylaq al-Rahman surrendered to the army men amid government forces' liberation operation in Kafr Batna, the sources said. The sources went on to say that terrorists suffered heavy casualties in Kafr Batna and a large number of them fled toward Hazeh settlement, adding that 20 gunmen of Faylaq al-Rahman came under siege of the army men and were forced to surrender. Aleppo Unknown gunmen raided a command post of the Turkey-led Euphrates Shield forces in al-Bab region, killing a number of militants, field sources said on Sunday. The sources said that several unknown attackers staged an assault on a command post of Ankara-backed militants in the village of Qa'ar Kalbin North of the town of al-Bab. The sources said that the assailants entered the command post and opened fire at the militants, killing a number of them. The Turkish Army troops and Ankara-backed militants continued Operation Olive Branch against the Kurdish fighters in Northwestern Aleppo and captured 14 more regions, including a military post, field sources reported on Sunday. According to Fars News Agancy, the sources said that the Turkish troops and their allied militants occupied the villages and settlements of Ein al-Hajar al-Kabir, Ein al-Hajar al-Saqir, Omo and Afrin Central prison, that is considered as a main base of the Kurds. They further said that the Turkish forces captured the industrial zone West of Afrin and cut off the main road connecting Ma'abatlabi settlement to the town of Afrin. The Ankara forces further seized control over the villages of al-Amiriyeh, Tatra, Serkan Joqli Jom, Kaletan Qarbi in Sheikh Hadid, Jatal Qabo and Sheikh Obasi in Rajou region and the village of Ashkan Est of al-Nashmah military base in Jandaris, the sources said. They went on to say that the Ankara forces have tightened noose on the Kurds in the town of Afrin, adding that the only road still open is between the village of Kafr Ram and Ein al-Hajar Northwest of Afrin and its capture will pave the way for laying siege on the town from three directions.