Time : Tuesday, March 27, 2018 News ID: 437000 Hujjat al-Islam Nabil Qawouq: Saudi Arabia, Israel will not achieve their sinister goals in Lebanon Rasa – The vice-president of the Executive Council of Hezbollah said, “Saudi Arabia will once again be defeated despite its many efforts to achieve its sinister goal.” RNA – Speaking at the unveiling ceremony of the book “Amir al-Quloub [Commander of Hearts]: Abu Muhammad al-Akhlim” by Hujjat al-Islam Kadhim Yasin which was held in the presence of the family of the martyr Muhammad al-Akhlim, Hujjat al-Islam Nabil Qawouq, the vice-president of the Executive Council of Hezbollah, said, “The Islamic Resistance [Hezbollah] is the treasure of the homeland and has complete power and authority in opposition to the danger of the Zionist regime and the Takfiri phenomenon.” The Lebanese Shi’ah scholar added that the presence and readiness of the Islamic Resistance to participate in the upcoming parliamentary elections in Lebanon will not detract from their fight towards the threat posed by the Zionist regime and the Takfiri phenomenon in any form. Lebanon’s parliamentary elections are scheduled to be held on May 6, 2018. Hujjat al-Islam Qawouq said that a resistant nation which did not fail to offer its life in its support for Islamic Resistance will not fail to vote. The senior member of Hezbollah emphasized that Lebanon’s internal problems have not led the country to neglect the danger of the Zionist regime, which violates Lebanon in three forms – by land, air and sea. He said that many people in Lebanon have condemned Saudi Arabia’s interference in the country’s internal affairs and said, “Do Saudi Arabia’s actions to provoke the people against each other and lead them to sedition indicate the friendship of Saudi Arabia and Lebanon? Saudi Arabia will once again be defeated despite its many efforts to achieve its sinister goals.” Hujjat al-Islam Qawouq continued, “Although Saudi Arabia strives hard to create dissension in Lebanon but just like in the past, it will not achieve anything except regret and defeat and Lebanon will remain firm and strong with its identity, position and by following the Islamic Resistance movement.” His Eminence said the coalition between the Amal Movement and Hezbollah is strategic and very solid, due to the blessing of the presence of Hujjat al-Islam Sayyid Hasan Nasrallah, the Secretary-General of Hezbollah, and Nabih Berri, the speaker of the parliament of Lebanon and the leader of the Amal Movement.