The strange mystery of Shakdam’s intentions By S.Amirah Iran’s resistance on revolutionary slogans is the greatest challenge to world powers in west that they have ever encountered. Revolution was a success to a great extent because it happened in an era of the Iranian consciousness which avoided western inspiration inside and outside the country. Imperialist regimes with all their qualifications could have never predicted such a Revolution, and from other hand they failed to decipher the mystery of such Revolution that originates from the Spiritual thought. The spirit of the Islamic revolution created a fortress out of Iran, in which infiltration inside it was one of the priority missions to the colonialist regimes. The super powers colonialist regimes would have waged a war against Iran and invaded it if they any chances of a regime change. But the Iranians rising support to their revolution made the war option as close as zero percent. The Revolution in Iran undermined the Israeli conspiracy that is planned against human rights and further avoided Israel expanding its boundaries over Arab countries. In a conclusion, Iran’s revolution revolved the world domination order policy. After physical war failure the domination system decided to take the war into a lot softer war called the Soft War. The mission is to target Iranians faithful hearts, strength, religion and culture, in which it is expected that Iranians will become adjusted to western spirit and create a domestic opposition. Imperialist this time initiated a war by attacking the heart of the revolution. Iran’s Supreme Leader Ayatollah Seyed Ali Khamenei in various statements mentioned the issue of infiltration and warned about it. It was a major case, when the education system in the country was dominated by a UN international curriculum for education which violated the domestic education laws. Today there are voices of rumors in the country about Shakdam’s intentions of cooperation with a state run media called Shafaqna. Since Jason Rezaian was incarcerated over his espionage activities the risk of espionage activities by journalist has escalated considerations over the country. Catherine Shakdam and Shabbir Hassanally are currently under magnifiers, suspicious of committing espionage activities. The modern technique of infiltrating Iran may have been evolved, and those who infiltrate now are not necessarily of Iranian origin like Jason Rezaian or simply foreign CIA operatives, they are converted Muslims, and they may pretend to be devoted to Shi'a ideology. Shakdam, who has been working for several medias such as Wikistrat, Defense Unlimited Foreign Policy Association, Russian International Affairs Council, Your Middle East, Majalla, Open Democracy, the Middle East Monitor, and the Guardian is now a major concern for Iranian security officials to survey if she has been engaging espionage activities or not. As it’s read in her work pieces she has attempted several times to mal-influence relations between Iran and Resistance groups, and further create virtual links Axes like Qatar and Turkey. The risk of infiltrations may be a major concern of Iranian officials in the new era of colonization, but Iranians stance to their revolution and consciousness puts the risk to its least. 