Time : Tuesday, March 27, 2018 News ID: 437015 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army's Air, Ground Forces Smash Al-Nusra Front Positions in Hama, Idlib RASA - The positions of the al-Nusra Front (Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at or the Levant Liberation Board) in Hama and Idlib were smashed during the military operations of the Syrian army and air force in those provinces. RNA - The al-Nusra Front's positions in Northern Hama were pounded by the Syrian fighter jets. Also, the army's artillery and missile units attacked the al-Nusra terrorists' strongholds in al-Zakat, al-Latamineh and Hajez Zalin regions in Northern Hama and the village of Um Jalal in Southeastern Idlib. The Syrian army's air and ground forces smashed the positions of the al-Nusra Front terrorists during military operations in Northern and Western Hama and Southern Idlib, killing tens of militants. The Syrian fighter jets pounded the al-Nusra positions in the town of Kafr Zita and the village of Zakat in Northern Hama. Also, the army's artillery and missile units attacked the al-Nusra terrorists' strongholds in al-Zakat, al-Latamineh and Hajez Zalin regions in Northern Hama and the village of Um Jalal in Southeastern Idlib. The terrorists' positions in regions near the village of Zizoun in Sahl al-Qab in Northwestern Hama were also targeted by the army's artillery and missile fire. Field sources also reported that during the offensives, tens of terrorists were killed and a large number of others were wounded. Also several of their positions and weapons military equipment were destroyed. Meantime, the Syrian air force conducted several assaults on al-Nusra positions and moves in the village of Abedin, Banesqol and Sheikh Mostafa in Southern Idlib. Field sources also reported that during the operations, tens of terrorists were killed and a number of others were wounded, adding that dozens of militants' vehicles and positions were also destroyed in the raids. Damascus General staff of the Russian armed forces announced on Monday that the Jeish al-Islam militant group has shown consent to evacuate Eastern Ghouta as Russian-Syrian talks continue with their commanders. The Arabic service of RT news quoted Head of the Operations Department of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces General Stanislav Haji Mahmidov as saying today that negotiations with the militants in Douma still continue. He added that the terrorists are ready to put down their weapons and withdraw from the region as soon as possible. The Russian General said that other than the necessity for making an agreement with militants to withdraw from Ghouta, it also needs logistical measures and vehicles for transferring them by the Syrian government. Douma is the last stronghold of terrorists in South of Eastern Ghouta as other regions have been cleansed by the army. The Syrian army gave a last opportunity to Jeish al-Islam terrorists to withdraw from Douma amid its rapid advances in the region. Aleppo Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) occupied tens of regions in Idlib, Aleppo and Hama provinces after infighting with rival terrorists from Syria's Tahrir Front. Heavy infighting erupted between Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at and Syria's Tahrir Front in Ajel and Jamiat al-Sa'adiyeh villages in Western Aleppo, the towns of Khan al-Sobol and Kafr Batikh in Idlib, the village of al-Jaradeh in Southern Idlib and the two villages of al-Mansoureh and Kharbat al-Naqous in Western Hama. Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at also won control of al-Mohandeen Awal, al-Mohandeseen Thani, Sheikh Ali, Reef al-Ateba, al-Fouj 46, Tadil, Ajil, Urum Soqra, Taqad, Kafr Nouran, al-Tawameh, Kafr Karamayn, Ma'arat al-Na'asan and Mirnaz regions. Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at has erected checkpoints in the village of Atmeh near the border with Turkey and stopped traffic of fuel vehicles from Northern Aleppo to Idlib. Reports from the region said Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at has also imposed control over Ram Hamdan, Hazreh, Kafr Yahmoul, Ma'arat Mesrin, Tarmanin, Tala'adat Waqah, Aqrabat, Kafr Lousin, Atmeh and Deir Hissan regions in Northern Idlib. Dara'a According to Fars News Agency, two senior commanders of the so-called Free Syrian Army (FSA) terrorist group were killed in Dara'a province in Southern Syria. Militant-affiliated sources reported from Eastern Dara'a on Monday that unknown assailants open gunfire at a vehicle carrying FSA-affiliated Jeish al-Thawrah terrorists the road to the town of al-Tayebah South of the town of Saida. According to the report, commander of 'Mohammed Ibn Abdullah' Brigade, Fadi al-Ba'ouni, and Abdolrahman al-Mahamid, another commander of Jeish al-Thawrah, were killed in the attack. Assassination attempts against terrorist commanders and militants in Southern Syria have recently increased.