Time : Thursday, March 29, 2018 News ID: 437032 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army on Alert to Launch Imminent Operation to Free Terrorist-Held Douma in Damascus Countryside Rasa - The Syrian Army troops are preparing to kick off a final operation to purge Douma of Jeish al-Islam terrorists, field sources said. RNA - "The Syrian Army is awaiting Jeish Al-Islam’s response to the government's offer for surrendering Douma," the sources disclosed. Jeish Al-Islam has repeatedly refused to surrender Douma. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Damascus The Syrian Army troops are preparing to kick off a final operation to purge Douma of Jeish al-Islam terrorists after the end of a daily ceasefire in Eastern Ghouta, field sources reported on Wednesday. The sources said that the Syrian Army is awaiting Jeish Al-Islam’s response to the government's offer for surrendering Douma. Jeish Al-Islam has repeatedly refused to surrender Douma, which is likely to happen again today. The source added that the next few hours in Eastern Ghouta region will be critical, as the Syrian army is prepared to kickoff a long-awaited operation to capture the strategic town of Douma. The Syrian army gave a last opportunity to Jeish al-Islam terrorists to withdraw from Douma on Sunday. Military sources said the army was preparing to launch an offensive on the city if the terrorists continue denying the proposal. Meantime, Jeish al-Islam Commander Osam Bawizani said that the group would not retreat from Eastern Ghouta, and asked other terrorist groups to help Jeish al-Islam by launching massive operations against the army. The army has gained control over 90% of Eastern Ghouta and Douma is the only town in the Northern parts of the region that is still under the terrorists' occupation. Idlib The Russian Air Force carried out several rounds of combat flights over the positions of Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) in Southern Idlib, destroying terrorists' bases, field sources reported on Wednesday. The Russian jets flying out of the Humeimim Airbase in Southwestern Lattakia carried out several raids, striking Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at’s positions in the Southern part of Idlib province. In particular, the warplanes bombed a main base of Tahrir al-Sham located inside the Southern Idlib town of al-Naqir, which is located just a few kilometers North of the Syrian army's frontlines. Dara'a Several Syrian Army units have recently redeployed from Eastern Damascus to the Northern part of Dara’a province as the military is shifting its attention to the Southern province, local sources reported on Wednesday. The sources said that a large number of the army men were recently redeployed to 15th Brigade’s base near the terrorist-held town of Inkhil in Northern Dara’a. Also, they added that several units from the army's 5th, 7th, and 9th divisions were brought back from Eastern Ghouta to Dara’a and Al-Quneitra provinces. With all signs pointing to Southern Syria as the next military objective after the conclusion of Eastern Ghouta and the Southern countryside of Damascus operation, the army will likely keep growing its troops in the region until the start of the offensive. According to Fars News Agency, the Russian Center for Reconciliation declared on its facebook page on Sunday that Moscow would support the Syrian army's air and ground operations in the Southern parts of the country still under terrorists' occupation. Meantime, the center said in another report that it is still too early to discuss a date for the Dara'a operation as negotiations with militants are underway to end their presence, and the army is still in operation against the terrorists in Eastern Ghouta.