دسته: نرم افزار » اداری » سازمان دهنده و تقویم EfficientPIM نرم افزار ی برای مدیریت اطلاعات شخصی می باشد که می تواند به کاربر در سازماندهی و برنامه ریزی زندگی شخصی و کاری کاربران ک مک کند. با استفاده از این نرم افزار می توان اطلاعات تماس، ملاقات ها و همه برنامه های کاری خود را در آن نگهداری کنید. این برنامه به کاربران فضایی اختصاص می دهد برای اینکه بتوانند یادداشت ها و خاطرات و حتی رمزهای خود را در آن نگهداری کنند. با استفاده از EfficientPIM Pro می توان همه کارهای خود را سازماندهی نمود و این برنامه رابط کاربری آسانی دارد. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم فزار EfficientPIM Pro: - مدیریت اطلاعات شخصی - سازماندهی و برنامه ریزی در امورات شخصی و کاری- دارای 8 نوع رابط کاربری متنوع- استفاده آسان و دسترسی سریع به اطلاعات- ویرایشگر قدرتمند اسناد - ثبت اطلاعات مخاطبین، ملاقات ها، خاطرات و ...- مدیریت رمز عبور- ا مک ان بازی ابی و بکاپ گرفتن از اطلاعات- و ... 
EfficientPIM is a full-featured PIM (Personal Information Manager) software program that can help you organize and plan your business and private life. With EfficientPIM you can keep track of contacts, appointments, tasks, to-do lists, birthdays, and much more.The software also gives you space for keeping notes, diaries, and even passwords. In order to be successful you need to be organized and efficient. With EfficientPIM all of the things you need to manage are located in one, easy-to-use interface. 
Here are some key features of " EfficientPIM ": - All-In-One Personal Information ManagerAll-In-One PIM software EfficientPIM is a professional All-In-One PIM software program (Personal Information Manager). It can manage your contacts, appointments, tasks, diaries, notes, passwords, or any other information you need access to. - Multiple Interface Styles 8 interface styles are provided to meet your individual needs! They have various tones of color like blue, green or metallic, and have Vista standard and XP standard windows appearances separately. - Easy to Use As powerful as the software is, it is also easy to use! Finding your information will be quicker and easier than ever before. Consistent operation interfaces for different features in this software make it simple to operate. - Easy to Search EfficientPIM has powerful search capabilities so you can quickly find your information. - Powerful Document Editor EfficientPIM has embedded a powerful document editor similar to MS-Word, which can be used to write your diary, memos, notes, remarks, and a variety of other documents. - Card View You can browse information such as contacts and tasks in card view. - Contacts Management Reflecting a people-oriented management philosophy, in addition to recording the information of your contacts, you can also track the events, appointments, tasks and diary related to them to enhance your personal network. - Password Management EfficientPIM provides you with a powerful way to manage all of your passwords. The password manager can help you record and find all your passwords. From now on, you only need to remember one password! - Desktop Notes You can "stick" information on the computer desktop directly! At a glance you can see the information that is important to you. - Information Safety Safeguards There is a Recycle Bin in this software, you do not need to be worried that you may delete some important information by mistake. The functions of Backup and Restore can help you conveniently save and migrate data. The software stores all sensitive information, such as passwords, in encrypted format. More info (open/close)