Time : Friday, March 30, 2018 News ID: 437039 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Terrorists Fail to Prevail over Syrian Army Positions in Deir Ezzur Rasa - The terrorists stormed the strongholds of the Syrian Army troops in Eastern Syria, but failed to break through their defense lines, military sources said. RNA - "The ISIL launched a massive offensive in Southeastern Deir Ezzur, targeting the army's positions near the key town of al-Mayadeen," the sources said. The terrorists launched the new offensive in a move to take advantage of the large dust storm that was sweeping through Eastern Syria. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Deir Ezzur The ISIL terrorists group stormed the strongholds of the Syrian Army troops in the Eastern province of Deir Ezzur, but failed to break thought their defense lines, military sources reported on Thursday. The sources said that the ISIL launched a massive offensive in Southeastern Deir Ezzur, targeting the army's positions near the key town of al-Mayadeen. The ISIL launched the new offensive in a move to take advantage of the large dust storm that is sweeping through Eastern Syria. The sources further said that the ISIL began today’s assault by detonating a car bomb in the Southwestern countryside of al-Mayadeen followed by a series of intense clashes that still continue. In a relevant development last week, the army troops found a mass grave in the Southeastern province of Deir Ezzur that contained tens of bodies of the civilians and military men executed by the ISIL Takfiri terrorists. The army forces discovered the mass grave in Deir Ezzur city's Central garden that contains nearly 150 civilians and military men during purging operations on Thursday. Local sources said the victims were executed by the ISIL during its rule over the region, adding that signs of torture were seen on a number of the dead bodies. Damascus The Syrian Army troops continued their mop-up operation in Harasta region in Eastern Ghouta and discovered a large depot of terrorists' arms and ammunition, including Israeli weapons, on Thursday. The sources said that the army men seized control over a base of the terrorists of Ahrar al-Sham, seizing a large cache of weapons. They added that Israeli-manufactured mines were discovered among the weapons and munitions seized from the terrorists. In addition to discovering this base, the Syrian Army unearthed a large network of tunnels that stretched across the Harasta suburb. Local sources reported on Wednesday that several Syrian Army units were recently redeployed from Eastern Damascus to the Northern part of Dara’a province as the military is shifting its attention to the Southern province. The sources said that a large number of the army men were recently redeployed to 15th Brigade’s base near the terrorist-held town of Inkhil in Northern Dara’a. Also, they added that several units from the army's 5th, 7th, and 9th divisions were brought back from Eastern Ghouta to Dara’a and Al-Quneitra provinces. With all signs pointing to Southern Syria as the next military objective after the conclusion of Eastern Ghouta and the Southern countryside of Damascus operation, the army will likely keep growing its troops in the region until the start of the offensive. Aleppo A militant group affiliated to Syria's Tahrir Front stormed the positions of Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) rival terrorist group in Western Aleppo on Thursday, militant-affiliated websites reported. The sources reported that gunmen of Nouralddeen al-Zinki, affiliated to Syria's Tahrir Front, launched a heavy assault on Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at near the town of Dar al-Izzah and managed to capture Basraton settlement and its surrounding areas after Tahrir Al-Sham withdrew further West of Dar al-Izzah. Pro-Zinki activists also claimed that at least five militants from Tahrir Al-Sham were killed during the advance. Al-Zinki’s assault comes just days after Tahrir Al-Sham killed several members of Syria's Tahrir Front in Eastern Aleppo. In a relevant development, heavy infighting erupted between Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at and Syria's Tahrir Front in Ajel and Jamiat al-Sa'adiyeh villages in Western Aleppo, the towns of Khan al-Sobol and Kafr Batikh in Idlib, the village of al-Jaradeh in Southern Idlib and the two villages of al-Mansoureh and Kharbat al-Naqous in Western Hama. Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at also won control of al-Mohandeen Awal, al-Mohandeseen Thani, Sheikh Ali, Reef al-Ateba, al-Fouj 46, Tadil, Ajil, Urum Soqra, Taqad, Kafr Nouran, al-Tawameh, Kafr Karamayn, Ma'arat al-Na'asan and Mirnaz regions. Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at erected checkpoints in the village of Atmeh near the border with Turkey and stopped traffic of fuel vehicles from Northern Aleppo to Idlib. Reports from the region said Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at also imposed control over Ram Hamdan, Hazreh, Kafr Yahmoul, Ma'arat Mesrin, Tarmanin, Tala'adat Waqah, Aqrabat, Kafr Lousin, Atmeh and Deir Hissan regions in Northern Idlib. The infighting erupted after a huge blast rocked the base of the foreign members of Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at in Central Idlib on Saturday, inflicting tens of casualties on the terrorist group. According to Fars News Agancy, militant-affiliated sources reported that a bomb-laden car was detonated in front of a building called 'National Salvation Government' in the Center of Idlib city. The sources added that the building belongs to the Uzbek militants of Tahrir al-Sham, saying that at least 15 militants were killed and tens of others were wounded in the explosion. Tensions have intensified among the terrorists in Idlib province in recent days. Two senior commanders of Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at terrorist group were also assassinated as internal tensions heightened with Syria's Tahrir Front in Idlib.