Time : Saturday, March 31, 2018 News ID: 437050 ‘Yemeni Forces Could March in Riyadh Now if Had Access to Iran’s Missile Technology’ Rasa – Head of Yemen's Supreme Revolutionary Committee Mohammad Ali al-Houthi rejected claims that Tehran is supplying the Arab country with weapons, saying that had Yemen gained access to Iran’s missile technology, its soldiers would have been marching in Riyadh now. RNA - "We will use all available means, and our options are open to deter aggression, as long as it continues and it is shameful to condemn Yemeni missiles that defending the Republic of Yemen while the world is silent about the crimes of US-Saudi aggression on Yemen. If the enemy continues to hit our cities and our siege and aggression against us, we will promise more than he had previously encountered,” al-Houthi said in an interview with France 24 television on Friday. He further said, "We are developing our missiles with the Russian and Korean industries, and we are also manufacturing them. It is not an Iranian industry, and we do not care that the aggressors believe that we have reached the stage of developing missile industries”. "If we had the alleged Iranian support, we would have been in Riyadh today, even if we had the alleged Iranian technology, we would had targeted them from the first day," the senior Yemeni Houthi official stressed. The remarks came days after the Saudi envoy to the UN Abdallah al-Moallimi wrote to the world body, claiming that Iran should be held accountable for supplying Yemen’s Houthi Ansarullah movement with missiles to target Saudi soil. According to Tasnim News Agency, the Saudi-led coalition, which has been waging a bloody war on Yemen for three years, recently displayed wreckage of what it called fragments of missiles recently fired from Yemen, and claimed forensic analysis showed they were supplied by Iran. "We will continue to target Aramco and bombard vital Saudi facilities to have a deterrent power against the arrogant enemy," al-Houthi said. ‏‏He also said, "We tell the British, Europeans and Americans to stop their support for Saudi Arabia to stop its aggression against us”. "We are on the outskirts of Najran. We have very great progress in Jizan and Asir. We are working in the framework of a long-term policy and working to drain the enemy," al-Houthi said.