Time : Sunday, April 1, 2018 News ID: 437053 al-Hakim condemned the crimes of the Zionist regime Rasa – The chairman of Iraq’s National Iraqi Alliance condemned the actions of the Zionist region on “Land Day” and expressed surprise at the silence of international assemblies in regard to this terrible catastrophe. 
RNA – In regard to the recent Israeli attacks on peaceful demonstrations in the occupied Palestinian territories on the forty-second anniversary of “Land Day,” Hujjat al-Islam Sayyid Ammar al-Hakim, the chairman of the National Iraqi Alliance, reacted to the violence and strongly condemned the occupation forces of the Zionist regime against the original owners of this land, which resulted in the deaths and injuries of a number of them. 
Condemning the actions of the Zionist regime, the head of National Wisdom Movement expressed surprise at the silence of international organizations against this terrible catastrophe. 
These crimes occurred hours after Israel targeted peaceful protests by Palestinians at Khan Younis, in the southern Gaza Strip. 
Hujjat al-Islam al-Hakim noted that attempts and actions of the Zionist are abominable and are indented to stabilize the domination of the occupation forces and tyrants of this regime against all international laws and regulations. 
At least 17 Palestinians lost their lives and more than 1,400 others sustained injuries when Israeli military forces opened fire on thousands of protesters who had flocked to a sit-in near the border fence between the Gaza Strip and the occupied Palestinian territories on Friday. 
The majority of the wounded suffered from tear gas inhalation or injuries inflicted by live fire and rubber-coated steel bullets. 
Ahead of the protest, the Israeli army had deployed more than 100 snipers to the Gaza border with permission to fire. 
Dubbed “The Great March of Return,” Friday’s rallies in Gaza coincided with the 42nd anniversary of Land Day, which commemorates the murder of six Palestinians by Israeli forces in 1976. 
The Return rallies will culminate on May 15 that marks Nakbah Day (Day of Catastrophe) on which Israel was created. 
112/978