دسته: نرم افزار » امنیتی » کنترل دسترسی Folder Lock یک نرم افزار امنیت فایل است که به ک مک آن و به راحتی می توانید در چند ثانیه فایل، فولدر، عکس ها و مستند ات بیشماری را قفل، پنهان یا رمزگذاری نمایید. این نرم افزار سریع، قابل اعتماد و راحت است. Folder Lock یک برنامه ی کامپیوتری است که به کمک آن و به راحتی می توانید فایل ها و فولدرهای شخصی خود را قفل کنید و بر روی آن ها پسورد قرار دهید. Folder Lock فایل ها را غیر قابل حذف می کند، آن ها را مخفی می کند و از دید کودکان، همکاران و دوستانتان پنهان می کند و از آن ها در برابر تروجان ها، ویروس ها و تهدیدات شبکه ای حفاظت می کند. به کمک این نرم افزار می توان از فایل های موجود بر روی حافظه های قابل حمل مانند USB Flash، Memory Sticks ،CD-RW ،floppies نیز حفاظت نمود. به کمک این محصول می توانید کامپیوترتان را قفل کنید و بر رو ی فایل های موجود در سطح هسته، ویندوز و DOS نیز قفل گذاری کنید. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار Folder Lock: - رمزگذاری یا قفل فایل ها- قابل استفاده برای کاربران ساده یا حرفه ای- عدم حذف فایل های قفل شده در صورت نصب برنامه- عدم ذخیره ی پسورد بر روی رجیستری یا دیسک- بهره مندی از خاموش شدن یا حفاظت خودکار- قابلیت ارسال امن فایل های قفل شده از طریق ایمیل - حفاظت از فایل های قفل شده در برابر کامپیوترهای شبکه - قفل گذاری و پنهان کردن فایل به صورت همزمان- فایل های قفل شده و پنهان شده غیر قابل حذف، غیر قابل خواندن و غیر قابل جابه جا شدن هستند- اشغال کردن فضای هارد دیسک تنها تا 3.5 MB - قابلیت افزودن سایز فایل های قفل شده با افزودن فایل ها و فولدرهای دیگربه آن- هماهنگی با ویندوز های Vista / 2003 / XP / 2000 / NT- سازگاری با سیستم فایل های FAT16 ،FAT32 ،NTFS و EFS- و ... 
Folder Lock is a full suite solution letting you keep your personal files encrypted and locked, while keeping an automatic and real-time backup of encrypted files to an online storage. It also offers portable security for USB drives and CDs/DVDs.Folder Lock also lets you lock files, folders and drives; save your personal information in Wallets; shred files and clean your Windows History. Folder Lock is the only product that offers 256-bit AES on-the-fly encryption as well as syncing of encrypted files to an online storage. No need to decrypt or manually backup your files. 
You can later restore files at any time, on any computer. Lockers can also be converted to executables using the 'Protect USB/CD' feature that allows you to keep your encrypted files wherever you go in USB drives or CDs and DVD or convert your files and folders to encrypted ZIP files for email attachments.Furthermore, If you want to protect your files without encrypting them, you can also lock your files, folders and drives on your PC from access and visibility. You can also create Encrypted Wallets to save personal information like Credit Cards, Bank Accounts and Business Cards.Apart from these amazing features you can also Shred files, folders, drives and empty hard drive space. You can also clean Windows usage history. Moreover, Folder Lock features additional security settings that will protect you data even more. You can activate password security and restrict access to different parts of the application using an admin level master password. You can run the application in complete stealth using the Stealth Mode feature.You can also catch and perform actions on repetitive hack attempts and on basis of incorrect password logs and you can set automatic duration based protection for your data security, so you know that your stuff is no longer accessible to anyone else when you're away from your PC. Here are some key features of "Folder Lock": - Users have an option whether to Encrypt or Lock, choices useful for both power users and casual users. Those who want ultimate security, can choose encrypiton. those who want ultimate speed, can choose locking.- There’s no longer the hassle of encrypting each and every file on different locations. Think how much time you will save simply by putting all your files and folders in one location. Convenient encryption and decryption happens on-the-fly.- Both Encryption and Locking are exceptionally fast. No competitor is offering this speed while offering 100% secure 256-bit AES Encryption.- The Lockers can’t be deleted on the computer where Folder Lock is installed and Folder Lock can't be uninstalled without the correct password.- Users who want to password protect folders on multiple locations on their hard disk, not just on the C: drive, can easily protect their files on another partition by copying the 'Lockers' from one place to another or by simply using the 'Lock' feature.- Secure and very strong Encryption. A strong industry standard 256-bit AES Encryption is used to encrypt your files for maximum protection. It is one of the most trusted encryption algorithms used in United States Military.- Folder Lock offers fully portability and it can even protect CD/DVD-RW, not just USB Flash Drive, Memory Stick and floppy disks. To protect data on these drives, you can simply copy or burn your Locker to that drive.- Lockers can also be emailed to someone over the internet. They won't be able to see your encrypted files without your password / permission. Even if someone breaks through and checks your email attachment in between, he won't be able to decrypt or use this information without the correct password.- Folder Lock works flawlessly on all Next Technology Windows, i.e. Windows Vista / 2003 / XP / 2000 / NT. It is also fully compatible on all disk drives types including FAT16, FAT32, NTFS and EFS.- You can increase the size of your Locker by simply adding more files and folders into your Locker. Even if you are left with little space in your Locker, you can always increase its size.- Brute force cracking is not possible, since the program delays for some time once a password is entered. This will prevent hackers who may try many different combinations of passwords to get through your files. The program also produces a load beep when an incorrect password is entered, to alert the administrator of possible hack attempt.- Password Strength meter shows you the strength of the password as you type, while you're setting a new password. Basic rule of thumb is to use a password that is easy to remember but hard one to guess.- Folder Lock doesn't save the password in the registry or the disk, preventing hackers and crackers.- Folder Lock also offers Auto Protect and Auto Shutdown features, this setting automatically locks or shutdown if more than five incorrect passwords are entered to try to decrypt the files.- Folder Lock erases tracks of users when they click the lock button. It deletes recent document history, find file and folder history and the data in clipboard when you close the Locker.- Protects important files from viruses, hackers, crackers, trojans, malware, spyware, worms, malicious programs and scripts. Protects files from network computers if you do not want to share files on network. Also protects files from hacker tools when you connect to the internet.- While using the Lock feature, users can choose to lock & hide their files simultaneously. Locked & Hidden files are unrenameble, undeletable, unmovable and totally inaccessible. There is no limit to the size of data or the type of files you can protect.- With its reduced file size and compact design, Folder Lock takes only 3.5 MB of hard disk space - small, portable and easy to keep. Thanks to the latest compression techniques. The GUI and interface is so well designed, it looks like an integral part of Windows XP.- Folder Lock isn't required to run at all times. Moreover, it doesn't save anything to the registry/run so that users do not have any memory problems or stability problems with the program. More info (open/close)