دسته: نرم افزار » توسعه وب » طراحی وب TOWeb تکنولوژی های HTML5, CSS3 و JavaScript را به همراه دستاورد طراحی واکنش گرای وب سایت (RWD) ترکیب نموده است تا به کاربرانش اجازه دهد که وب سایت های مدرن و ریسپانسیوی طراحی کنند که در گوشی های هوشمند، تبلت، لپ تاپ، کامپیوترهای دسکتاپ و حتی تلویزیون ها، قابل نمایش باشند. رابط کاربری جامعی که TOWeb فراهم می کند، استفاده از آن را بسیار آسان نموده است. درست در لحظه ی اولی که آن را اجرا می کنید می توانید از میان قالب های آماده ی موجود که تنوع قابل توجهی نیز دارند، یکی را برای وب سایت خود انتخاب نموده و سپس آن را مطابق با سلیقه و نیاز خود سفارشی سازی کنید و گام آخر نیز قادر خواهید بود تا سبد خرید، کشورهای مجاز برای ثبت سفارش، مالیات، فرم سفارش و حتی جزئیات پرداخت را نیز به وب سایت خود اضافه کنید. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار TOWeb: - استفاده آسان بدون نیاز به دانش قبلی در زمینه طراحی و ایجاد وب سایت- ارئه قالب های آماده و قابل سفارشی سازی برای وب سایت- طراحی وب سایت های ریسپانسیو - ساخت فروشگاه آنلاین- بهینه سازی تگ های HTML برای یافتن جایگاهی بالاتر در SEO- انتشار سایت بر روی هاست- ارائه بیش از 100 فونت طراحی وب سایت گوگل- ویرایشگر عکس برای تنظیم دقیق تصاویر در نرم افزار- و ... 
TOWeb combines the latest HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript technologies with the Responsive Web Design (RWD) approach to create modern websites that looks great when displayed on any device : smartphones, tablets, laptops, desktops, TVs…!TOWeb displays a more than comprehensive interface which makes it very easy to use. Right from the start, it proves this by allowing you to choose from one of the many website templates that can be customized to fit your needs. 
The application also takes you through a succession of logical steps that need to be followed when creating a new website. After you choose the template, you can customize the theme and each topic that exists within the page. In the final step, you are able to attach shopping cart, selling countries, taxes, order forms and payment details, all while viewing the functionality of the website in real-time. Easy and intuitive No technical knowledge is required. Install TOWeb, choose a template, click, edit and publish ! A Complete and Modern CSS3 Based Theme Editor Customize the graphical theme of your website using the built-in theme editor. All CSS3 styles are supported: gradients, drop shadows, rounded edges ... each element of the site is customizable, just click on it and change its style to see the result in the live preview. Create your Online Store TOWeb includes a complete e-Commerce solution to easily create your online store without paying any subscription. With just a few clicks, a shopping cart with a great checkout experience can be added to your website for selling your products online. Manage your orders, payments (PayPal, Ogone, WorldPay, MoneyBookers, Skrill, SystemPay, WesternUnion, check, wire transfer, ...), shippings, taxes, selling countries, sales of digital products (ebooks, photos, music, files ...) and much more. Responsive Web Design PC, mobile, tablet, TV … the layout of your website automatically adapts to fit the screen on which it is displayed. Professional design Create a site to your image that will impress visitors: TOWeb's website templates are fully customizable… e-Commerce solution Create your online store and accept payments in minutes with the included e-commerce functions. Search Engine Optimization (SEO) A site that’s highly ranked by search engines can increase traffic and bring you visitors looking for what you have to offer. TOWeb generates high quality W3C compliant HTML5 files to ensure your site gets the attention it deserves from search engines.- Keyword-rich filenames (automatic or customizable)- Sitemap file with priority and update frequency configuration- Page-level META Title and Description- Google Analytics and Google Site Verification easy integration- ALT tag for pictures SEO- Site optimizer to point out all the errors and missing information Here are some key features of "Lauyan TOWeb": - Included free website templates- Easy and intuitive content editing- Complete and modern theme editor- Online store creator- Publish to any web host Other features: - Interactive features to allow your visitors to leave comments on your pages or your products, subscribe to your mailing list or respond to pools (PHP hosting required).- Access to 100s Google Web Fonts- An included Search box and Search Engine for your pages and products- Security features to protect any page with a password, and captcha verification to protect your forms- Multi-image, sliders, albums, and an image editor to adjust your pictures directly in TOWeb- Support of numerous objects (HTML5 or YouTube videos, Google Maps, Twitter Widget, Graph, Countdown, Polls, ...) - Export and Import features for catalog products- Easy creation of links and topics More info (open/close)