Time : Monday, April 2, 2018 News ID: 437065 Ayatollah Hasan Alemi: Support for Iranian products must not end in speeches, statements Rasa – The representative of the people of Khorasan Razavi province in the Assembly of Experts emphasized that the strengthening of the economic conditions of the country is the guarantor of the implementation of the slogan of the year, “Support for Iranian Products.” 
RNA – In an interview with Rasa News Agency, Ayatollah Hasan Alemi, the representative of the people of Iran’s Khorasan Razavi province in the Assembly of Experts, stressed upon the importance of giving attention to the realization of the slogan given to the year 1397, “Support for Iranian Products,” by the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Sayyed Ali Khamenei, and said, “In fact, the slogan of the year will translate the future of the country in in one way or another by next year year so that the officials and people will strive to realize this slogan in general.” 
The Iranian cleric said, “The slogan ‘Support for Iranian Products’ is in fact the same as the demand of the people from the authorities. The lives of the people must be organized in such a way that they can manage their lives in a dignified manner and this important issue will be realized when they are making enough income to live off of. Hence, the necessary income will be achieved by having jobs, businesses and a path, which can only be realized through the field of domestic and national production.” 
Ayatollah Alemi emphasized that the strengthening of the economic conditions of the country is the guarantor of the implementation of the slogan of the year, said, “The officials must note that the slogan of the year must not be repeated in speeches and statements alone, but with the facilities that they have, they must strive to realize it.” 
The representative in the Assembly of Experts noted the youth of the country are an important capacity for the development of the country and said, “In order to fulfill the slogan of the year, the authorities must use the energy of the youth of the country and by creating suitable jobs and employment opportunities, they will lead their valuable energy towards the production of national goods.” 
He explained that the being employed increases hopes among the people and prevents frustration and neglecting the employment of the youth causes disillusionment and disappointment among them. In fact, this despondence destroys the power and value of production among the youth. 
“Therefore, in order to achieve the slogan of the year, the authorities must create employment for the youth such that by the middle of the year 1397, the people will see the works and blessings of the implementation of this slogan. If this does not occur, they have not properly performed their duties and must be held accountable to God Almighty,” Ayatollah Alemi said. 
In his New Year message on March 21st in Mashhad, Ayatollah Khamenei named the Iranian solar year of 1397 “Support for Iranian Products,” saying boosting domestic production could solve many of the country’s economic and social woes, as the solution to all issues could be found inside the country. 
112/974