Time : Monday, April 2, 2018 News ID: 437072 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Russian Air Force Strikes Terrorists' Centers in Northern Hama Rasa - The terrorists' strongholds came under several airstrikes by the Russian Air Force in Northern Hama, field sources said on Sunday. RNA - The Russian airstrikes took place after the terrorists attacked a Syrian Christian town. The sources said that the Russian jets flying out of the Humeimim Military Airport reportedly launched over 15 airstrikes on the Northern Hama towns of Kafr Zia, Zakat, Latamina and Latmin, inflicting major losses on the terrorists. The terrorists launched artillery attack on the Christian town of Mahardah, where Russia currently has deployed forces. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Hama The Russian Air Force carried out several airstrikes on the strongholds of the terrorists in Northern Hama following an attack by the militants on a Syrian Christian town, field sources said on Sunday. The sources said that the Russian jets flying out of the Humeimim Military Airport reportedly launched over 15 airstrikes on the Northern Hama towns of Kafr Zia, Zakat, Latamina and Latmin, inflicting major losses on the terrorists. The terrorists launched artillery attack on the Christian town of Mahardah, where Russia currently has deployed forces. In a relevant move on Saturday the Russian army aircraft launched a heavy barrage of airstrikes over the positions of Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) near the key town of Jisr al-Shughour near Lattakia-Turkey border. The fighter jets conducted over 30 airstrikes over Idlib province. In addition to targeting Jisr al-Shughour, the warplanes also struck a Shari’ah (religious) Court of the Tahrir al-Sham near the town of al-Dana. The airstrikes came after reports that the militants in Idlib were preparing to launch an offensive against the Syrian Army in the region. Damascus Jeish al-Islam militants reached a Russia-mediated agreement with the Syrian Army troops on handing over the key town of Douma in Eastern Ghouta, field sources said Sunday. The sources said that based on the agreement some of Jeish al-Islam militants from Douma will be evacuated to the town of Jarabulus (under the control of the Turkish-backed militants) in Northeastern Aleppo while other fighters will reconcile with the Syrian government. Russian military police are poised to soon enter Douma where they will establish evacuation corridors, monitor the militants' withdrawal and host temporary humanitarian infrastructures. Furthermore, Jeish al-Islam is to hand over all hostages (civilians and troops) to the Syrian Army as well as the corpses of fallen government ranks. While it is unknown whether or not the Syrian Army will enter Douma anytime soon, all government institutions once housed in the town are to be immediately reinstated; civil servants are to return to their jobs at these places. Massdar news quoted other sources as saying earlier on Monday that the Syrian government and Russia have allowed Jeish al-Islam to transport their wounded fighters to Idlib in exchange for an extended ceasefire inside the town of Douma. According to a military source in Damascus, a full agreement is expected to be announced in the next 48 hours. The source added that Jeish al-Islam is close to accepting all the Syrian army terms, including the militants' departure from Douma to Northern Syria. Quneitra-Dara'a According to Fars News Agency, The Syrian Army troops are preparing to launch a large-scale operation against the terrorists in the two Southern provinces of Quneitra and Dara'a in the coming weeks, a military source reported on Sunday. The source said that most of the army units that participated in Eastern Ghouta offensive are to partake in the operations in Southern Syria. The source added that the primary objectives will be to secure the main highway from Dara’a to Damascus and retake Quneitra province. The army has offered to reconcile with the militants in Dara’a; however, the latter has rejected all the government’s offers. No date has been announced for the offensive yet.