دسته: نرم افزار » توسعه » ایجاد برنامه نصب Tarma InstallMate نرم افزار ی است که به منظور برآوردن نیاز شما در زمینه ساخت فایل نصب برای برنامه ها در پلتفرم های ویندوز مایکروسافت طراحی شده است. با ک مک این نرم افزار شما قادر به ساخت فایل های کم حجم نصب (install) یا حذف (uninstall)، به صورت یک فرآیند هوشمند که بدون هیج گونه پرسشی به نصب اقدام می کند و یا فرآیند نصبی که دارای رابط کاربری و به صورت کاملاً محاوره ای است، خواهید بود. برای استفاده از این نرم افزار مفید شما به برنامه نویسی نیاز نداشته و توسط محیط توسعه ویژوال و جامع طراحی شده برای نرم افزار می توانید به هدف خود برسید. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار Tarma InstallMate: - دارای محیط توسعه بصری به منظور استفاده آسان تر- دارای طیف گسترده ای از آیتم های مربوط به نصب- ا مک ان ایجاد یک فرآیند نصب به صورت Option و مبتنی بر اجزا- امکان ایجاد Windows Mobile installer- فشرده سازی بسیار عالی برای داشتن فایل های نصب کم حجم- دارای بیش از 450 نوع preflight check برای بررسی عواملی که ممکن است باعث مشکل شوند- تعریف عبارت های نمادین انعطاف پذیر (برای اموری مانند مسیر فایل و پوشه، مسیر رجیستری، سیستم، اطلاعات زمان اجرا و ...)- پشتیبانی از زبان های بومی- امکان ایجاد فایل های DLL- و... 
Tarma InstallMate was designed to create stand-alone software installers for Microsoft Windows platforms, with a small distribution size, a straight forward and clean user interface, and smart install and uninstall behavior.Requires no scripting; includes an intuitive and comprehensive development environment with extensive preflight checking to suit novices and experts alike. 
Here are some key features of "Tarma InstallMate": Intuitive development environment: - An easy to use development environment with clearly subdivided project sections and pages, plus extensive help and toolbars. Wide range of installation items: - You can install files, folders, shortcuts, registry keys and values, INI file values, environment variables, file extensions, COM and DCOM classes and servers (including ActiveX controls), type libraries, and services, with a comprehensive range of options. Option- and component-based installation: - Product Options are pieces of functionality that the user can select for installation in a tree-like structure, while components are groups of installation items defined by the developer that must be installed or removed together. Windows Mobile installer support: - You can create Windows Mobile installers from any InstallMate project, and install the resulting .cab files when your main product is being installed. Small and fast: - InstallMate distribution packages are small, fast, and have excellent compression, making your installation packages as compact as possible, thus saving download time and disk space. Extensive preflight checking: - More than 450 different preflight checks spot potential problems before you deploy your installation. Fully editable installer action sequences: - You have complete control over the installer's actions, even to the point that it's not an installer at all, but, for example, a CD-ROM AutoRun menu application. Fully editable installer dialogs and dialog sequences: - Using the built-in dialog editor, you can completely redefine any and all dialogs in the installation wizard, add any dialogs that you need, or even remove all of them completely. Flexible symbolic expressions: - Symbolic expressions can be used for many purposes, including file and folder paths, registry paths, system and runtime information, and of course general text that must be easily replaceable. Our runtime functions offer even more possibilities. Comprehensive language and localization support: - Virtually any piece of text that is visible to the user can be localized, including, but not limited to: dialogs, messages, file and folder names, shortcut titles, and registry data. You can build a single installer that includes all languages, or separate installers for each language from a single project. The InstallMate development environment, its project files, and the Tarma native installation database and Setup program are Unicode-based from the ground up to ensure that all localization remains intact. (For Windows 95, 98, and Me, an ANSI-based Setup program is supplied, which uses the same Unicode installation database.) Add-on and update installers: - Add-on and update installers allow you to install and remove updates and add-on packages separately from the main application's original installation, while still allowing the main application to be uninstalled together with all its dependants. Extension DLLs: - You can extend the functionality of the installers by creating your own extension DLLs. More info (open/close)