- سازگار با نسخه های مختلف ویندوز - و ... 
MODO is your starting point for creative exploration. Whether you’re creating addictive real-time experiences, innovative product designs, compelling advertising images, or engaging film and video content, MODO’s artist-friendly tools let you iterate freely to realize your ideas’ full creative potential.MODOwas developed as a complex, reliable and powerful software that enables you to draw, paint, model and render 3D models.Modelers and designers can use this handy program to sculpt accurate 3D models and create beautiful animations.This comprehensive and flexible 3D modeller can be used by television, film and game experts. 
Faster iterations With powerful 3D modeling and sculpting tools, and an advanced photorealistic viewport and preview renderer, MODO lets you iterate faster for better concept and production models, look development and interactive design reviews. Consistency guaranteed With consistent workflows, modular tool assembly and an intuitive UI, MODO lets you apply the knowledge you gain in your first days of exploration to fulfilling the most complex, sophisticated tasks down the road. Out-of-the-box value MODO offers modeling, sculpting, painting, effects and animation tools in one cohesive, easy-to-use content creation package, with unlimited network rendering capabilities and MeshFusion Boolean tools included. Seamless pipeline integration MODO fits right into your pipeline, with Python and C++ APIs; a Python TD SDK; a fully customizable UI; and support for industry-standard formats like OpenSubdiv, OpenColorIO, OpenEXR, OpenVDB and Alembic. Here are some key features of "modo": ModelingEngineered for speed and creativity, and featuring award-winning MeshFusion Boolean tools, MODO’s flexible modeling toolset is ideal for both freeform organic models and precision final production meshes. UV workflows MODO's industry-leading UV tools are tightly integrated with modeling and sculpting functions, offering a powerful workflow for creating and editing both regular and multi-tiled UDIM UVs. Sculpting Bring your artistic expression to 3D modeling as you use MODO's intuitive, fully integrated brush-based sculpting tools to quickly rough out volumes and add multiple levels of fine detail. Painting Create detailed textures directly on your 3D model with MODO's extensive range of integrated paint tools that include pressure-sensitive brushes, image-based stencils, masking and curve snapping. Rendering MODO’s production-proven physically-based renderer offers a rare blend of speed and quality to create stunning, photorealistic imagery that challenges the industry's best. Unlimited network rendering is included. Baking Review your textures as you bake, and watch them refine progressively; tweak settings and make surface changes without waiting for a final render; store bake-related parameters for reuse with different assets. Rigging Featuring a nondestructive, nonlinear toolset and fully integrated modular workflow, MODO's flexible node-based rigging system lets you easily create, edit, manage and reuse complex character rigs. Animation Incorporating traditional animation techniques applied in innovative ways, MODO's animation framework is highly customizable to meet the most demanding of production challenges. Effects MODO's rule-based, directable particles work together with the fully integrated rigid and soft bodies and procedural shattering to let you create compelling dynamic simulations in less time. Hair and fur MODO lets you create and manipulate realistic hair, fur, grass, feathers and other fibre-based effects as actual geometry that can be sculpted, shaded and rendered directly in your scene. Camera and projection tools MODO’s advanced tools for virtual camera creation and digital matte painting are perfect for set extensions and product placement shots, while the spherical camera rig lets you work with 360° video. Presets With MODO's flexible and efficient preset system, you can save selected parts of processes or content for reuse elsewhere, or for sharing useful techniques or approved assets with other team members. Collaboration and customization With extensive file format support, asset-sharing workflows and complete customizability, MODO offers production teams the combination of effective collaboration and individual efficiency they require. More info (open/close)