Politics April 2, 2018 TEHRAN – Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Ali Khamenei has called on the entire Iranian nation to dedicate their efforts to promoting domestic production in line with resistance economy. 
In a speech aired immediately after the turn of the Persian calendar year on March 20, the Leader extended New Year felicitations to all Iranians at home and abroad and other peoples who celebrate Noruz, which marks the beginning of the spring. 
Ayatollah Khamenei described domestic production as “the pivotal” issue of the current year, which is the key to resolving many of the country’s economic and social woes, Press TV reported. 
“The key is the domestic production and if it is speeded up, many of the problems would go away,” said the Leader. “I chose this as the pivot for this year’s motto. This year’s motto is supporting Iranian products.” 
“This is not lonely the concern of officials but the people from all walks of life can contribute to it. To the very sense of the word, they can have a part,” the Leader added. 
‘Iran has managed to foil U.S. plots to cause rifts in Middle East’ 
Addressing a large crowd of pilgrims at shrine of Imam Reza (AS) in the northeastern city of Mashhad on March 21, the Leader also said the Islamic Republic has well managed to defuse a plot by the United States to spread terrorism and cause rifts in the Middle East region to avert attention from the Zionist regime of Israel. 
“The United States created terrorist groups like Daesh in the region in a bid to distract public attention from the Zionist regime. The United States either does not want or cannot ensure security in the Middle East,” the Leader remarked. 
Ayatollah Khamenei went on to say that Western countries have failed to establish security and stability in Afghanistan, stressing that Tehran has offered assistance to regional countries based on good faith. 
The Leader pointed out that Iran has managed to cleanse many parts of the Middle East from the presence of terrorists. 
He added, “Iran has never sought to meddle in the internal affairs of other countries.” 
“The Islamic Republic made an essential contribution to defeat the Takfiris in the region. The Islamic Republic was able to liberate the people from these Takfiris in an important part of this region, and these are great results not to be diminished,” he said, according to the official website of the Leader. 
Elsewhere in his remarks, Ayatollah Khamenei hailed the Islamic Revolution’s achievements since its victory in 1979. “The revolution’s 40th year [since victory] is the age of maturity and vitality, not senility and decline.” 
“The Islamic Revolution is moving forward strongly and vigorously while it has maintained its slogans and fundamental principles. The revolution’s 40th year [since victory] is the age of maturity and vitality, not senility and decline,” the Leader stated. 
Ayatollah Khamenei also pointed to the great potential that the country enjoys, emphasizing that all national problems can be solved by the youth and through self-reliance. 
“The Iranian nation has been able to fulfill the main principles of the (1979) Islamic Revolution. Our revolution toppled the domination of colonial powers over Iran… Before the Islamic Revolution, governments in Iran were brought to power by foreigners,” the Leader explained. 
Ayatollah Khamenei also described Iran as the most independent nation in the world, stressing that all Iranians enjoy freedom within the framework of the constitution. 
“No Iranian faces pressure or strain because of having different opinions about the establishment. Iranian youths feel confident and independent nowadays. There is still work to be done regarding justice in Iran,” he stressed. Leader says Iran is much better off than many other countries concerning education and healthcare. 
He also said Iran is much better off than many other countries concerning education and healthcare, saying the gap between various classes of the Iranian society has been reduced following the Islamic Revolution. 
The Leader warned that enemies are trying to make people disappointed about the establishment through propaganda, stressing that Iran has had a desirable record in terms of its gross domestic product (GDP). 
Ayatollah Khamenei said educated young Iranians provide a huge capacity for the country, calling for the full exploitation of their capabilities. 
The Leader also demanded that the country’s geographical capacities, energy resources and mineral reserves be tapped, underlining that the youth are able to do so many great things. “We need to fight the pockets of corrupt people in the country fiercely… We need to put an end to the dependence of the country’s economy on oil.” 
“Iran’s economy must focus on domestic production. We should not depend on help from outside but work inside the country. We need to fight the pockets of corrupt people in the country fiercely… We need to put an end to the dependence of the country’s economy on oil. We should be zealous in supporting our domestic products and national economy,” Ayatollah Khamenei added. Related News 