  437081 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Terrorists' Military Positions Come under Syrian Fighter Jets' Heavy Attacks Rasa - The Syrian warplanes heavily pounded terrorists' positions in Eastern Qalamoun Mountains in Northern Damascus to pave the ground for a ground assault in the region. RNA - The military sources reported on Monday that around half a dozen airstrikes involving bombs and rockets targeted militants' tactical positions and movements across terrorist-controlled areas of the region, mostly atop Jabal (Mount) Al-Batra. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Damascus The Syrian Air Force bombed heavily terrorists' positions in Eastern Qalamoun Mountains in Northern Damascus to pave the ground for a ground assault in the region, military sources reported on Monday. The sources said that around half a dozen airstrikes involving bombs and rockets targeted militants' tactical positions and movements across terrorist-controlled areas of the region, mostly atop Jabal (Mount) Al-Batra. Earlier it was reported that the army had already sent negotiation delegations to Eastern Qalamoun to talk with militants and organize their evacuation or reconciliation with the Damascus government. The sources further said that Russian airpower will also participate in support of the Syrian Army anti-insurgency operation when it is launched. Quneitra The Syrian Army has been dispatching a large number of forces and a large volume of equipment to the Southwestern part of the country to launch a major offensive against terrorists in Quneitra province, field sources said on Monday. The sources said that a large number of units of the army’s 5th, 7th and 9th divisions have already been redeployed to the Southern provinces of Dara’a and Quneitra; however, several more units are expected to head to the provinces in the coming days. The sources said that the Syrian Army’s first target in Southern Syria will be the Al-Nusra terrorists in Quneitra. The Syrian Army is already in control of the Northern part of Quneitra, but the remaining towns to the South, including the provincial capital, remain in possession of the terrorists. To capture Quneitra, the Syrian Army may find itself in a tough situation, as the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) will be within artillery range of their units. The Israeli army has targeted the Syrian Army on several occasions in the past. The Southern Syria offensive by the Syrian army is expected to commence in early May. The Russian Center for Reconciliation declared on its facebook page last week that Moscow would support the Syrian army's air and ground operations in the Southern parts of the country still under terrorists' occupation. Meantime, the center said in another report that it is still too early to discuss a date for the Dara'a operation as negotiations with militants are underway to end their presence, and the army is still in operation against the terrorists in Eastern Ghouta. Raqqa According to Fars Nesw Agancy, the militia of the Syrian city of Raqqa fired mortars on the US-led coalition base in the town of Ein Issa, the press service of the movement said on Monday. “Following the intelligence activities, the militia of Raqqa waged a special operation targeting the US Staff located at the former base of the 93rd Brigade in the district of Ein Issa, 43 miles North of Raqqa. Several mortar shells were fired on individual targets without any casualties on our side,” the statement said, Sputnik reported. The militia also said that they do not tolerate “the occupational forces” of the United States, Turkey and their allies in Northern Syria. The statement read, “Do not relax night and day, wherever you are.” On March 25, the indigenous Arab population launched an uprising against armed groups supported by the United States in the town of Al-Mansura in the suburbs of Syria's Raqqa, opposing a forced mobilization conducted by the Syrian Democratic Forces and local self-governing bodies appointed by the United States.