Time : Tuesday, April 3, 2018 News ID: 437075 Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani: The Islamic Ummah must be united to destroy the Zionist regime Rasa – Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani condemned Israel’s recent killing of Palestinian protestors and the silence of international organizations and emphasized that the United Nations has become an inefficacious organization. RNA – Speaking during his first jurisprudence class of the Iranian year of 1397 at Qom’s Grand Mosque, Grand Ayatollah Hoseyn Nouri-Hamadani condemned Israel’s recent killing of 17 Palestinian protestors participating in the Great March of Return in the Gaza Strip near the Israeli border and the silence of international organizations in regard to this issue. The revered source of emulation considered the fight against the arrogant powers and the false Zionist regime as among the principles of the Islamic Revolution and the movement of the late founder of Iran’s Islamic Revolution, Imam Khomeyni and added, “Imam Khomeyni was very serious in fighting this usurping regime and believed that this cancerous tumour must be eliminated.” Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani stressed that Jerusalem al-Quds is the first qiblah of Muslims and an illegitimate and usurping regime has usurped it and said, “Muslims and the freedom-seeking peoples must help the Palestinian people through unity and solidarity and continue their movement until the destruction of this illegitimate regime.” The prominent professor in the Islamic Seminary of Qom criticized the silence of international organizations and the claimants of international human rights and noted, “Of course, we do not have any expectations from the United Nations because it is administered through billions of dollars of aid from Saudi Arabia and the arrogant powers and effectively, it has become an inefficacious organization.” Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani described the creation of false sects, such as Wahhabism and the Daesh terrorist group, as one of the plans of the arrogant powers and said, “Through this manner, the enemies seek to entangle Muslims with themselves and create a margin of safety for Israel. Their main means and the arena of the battalion is Saudi Arabia but Muslims know that the first issue of the Islamic world is the liberation of Jerusalem al-Quds and the fight against the Zionists.” At least 17 Palestinians lost their lives and more than 1,400 others sustained injuries when Israeli military forces opened fire on thousands of protesters who had flocked to a sit-in near the border fence between the Gaza Strip and the occupied Palestinian territories on Friday, March 30th. The majority of the wounded suffered from tear gas inhalation or injuries inflicted by live fire and rubber-coated steel bullets. Ahead of the protest, the Israeli army had deployed more than 100 snipers to the Gaza border with permission to fire. Dubbed “The Great March of Return,” Friday’s rallies in Gaza coincided with the 42nd anniversary of Land Day, which commemorates the murder of six Palestinians by Israeli forces in 1976. The Return rallies will culminate on May 15 that marks Nakbah Day (Day of Catastrophe) on which Israel was created.