  437086 Israeli Forces Detain Scores of Palestinian in West Bank, Gaza Rasa - Israeli forces Monday detained a total of 20 Palestinians during multiple overnight raids across the occupied West Bank, three Palestinians near the border crossing East of Khan Younes, South of the Gaza Strip, and six Palestinian minors after raiding their homes in the East Jerusalem neighborhood of al-Issawiyah. RNA - Israeli police conducted several raids across East Jerusalem, detaining 14 Palestinians, including six minors aged between 13 and 17. Israeli forces also detained three Palestinians from Nablus district in the Northern West Bank, WAFA reported. In the central West Bank district of Ramallah, forces conducted a raid into Turmusayyah, Northeast of the city, detaining a 13-year-old Palestinian minor. They also raided Deir Ghassaneh village, Northwest of Ramallah, detaining a Palestinian. Another Palestinian was detained during a similar raid into Beit Fajjar town, South of Bethlehem, in the Southern West bank. Israeli forces also detained six Palestinian minors after raiding their homes in the East Jerusalem neighborhood of al-Issawiya. The minors, whose ages are between 13 and 17, were moved to interrogation centers in the city. Israeli forces have also detained three Palestinians near the border crossing East of Khan Younes, South of the Gaza Strip. Witnesses reported that Israeli soldiers stationed at military watchtowers and in tanks along the borders detained the three for allegedly approaching the border crossing, as Israeli soldiers fired live ammunition towards the unarmed protesters. Thousands of Palestinians Friday launched the Great March of Return in the besieged Gaza Strip to demand their right of return to their villages and towns they were forcibly displaced from in 1948. A Palestinian succumbed to his wounds Monday after being shot by Israeli snipers as he participated in the largest non-violent demonstration to the East of Khan Yunis in the Southern Gaza Strip, medics said, raising the death toll to 18. In addition to the 18 Palestinians killed, approximately 1,500 others were wounded, including many who are still being hospitalized after being shot by explosive bullets, also known as “dum dum” bullets, resulting in calls for an independent inquiry by the European Union and UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.