Time : Wednesday, April 4, 2018 News ID: 437091 Hujjat al-Islam Ahmad Zadhoush: English Shi’ah angry due to the victories of Iran’s Islamic system Rasa – The Iranian cleric described the anger of English Shi’ahs as due to the brilliance and victories of Iran’s Islamic establishment and the religious authority of Ayatollah Sayyid Ali al-Sistani. RNA – In an exclusive interview with Rasa News Agency, Hujjat al-Islam Ahmad Zadhoush, the director of Qom’s al-Murtadha University, spoke in regard to the recent explicit insults and objections of the British Shi’ah phenomenon against the Islamic Republic of Iran and stated, “This phenomenon has various dimensions. First, the British Shi’ah phenomenon didn’t have any sort of effect in saving the Iraqi and Syrian people from Daesh and the Americans and they didn’t have any role in the victories of the Iraqi people and haven’t been able to serve the people of Iraq and Syria.” The Iranian cleric described the anger of English Shi’ahs as due to the brilliance and victories of Iran’s Islamic establishment and the religious authority of Ayatollah Sayyid Ali al-Sistani and added “The English Shi’ahs have now reached a point where they feel that not only do they not have any position in Iran, but also in Iraq, Syria and the rest of the Muslim states where they hoped to implement their policies. There wasn’t any kind of welcome for them and their observation of the successive victories of the Islamic Republic and the bold presence and authority of Ayatollah al-Sistani among the Shi’ahs led to helplessness and desperation among this group and naturally, their recent moves and tensions demonstrate the same anger and frustration.” Hujjat al-Islam Zadhoush said that support of the United Kingdom for the attack by the Shirazi phenomenon on the Iranian embassy in London on March 9th was a clear proof for the English origins of this phenomenon and added, “As another aspect of the investigation in the recent tensions, there is an important question as to which power in the United Kingdom can attack an embassy freely and can shout slogans by putting on military uniforms and setting up a military unit? It’s clear that they enjoy the support of the British government and its governing body.” He added, “This was a ridiculous and funny proposition that, despite the words of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution [Ayatollah Khamenei], to the English Shi’ah over the past few years, this phenomenon has denied their relationship with this colonial country but now it’s clear to everyone that a secure base, such as the United Kingdom, is supporting the Shirazi phenomenon.” His Eminence said that their actions demonstrated their weaknesses. They were able to easily engage in a childish movement by climbing the walls of the Iranian embassy and despite the presence of the security officials, they were able to shout slogans against the Islamic establishment and lower the holy flag of the Islamic Republic of Iran while wearing military uniforms. Hujjat al-Islam Zadhoush called the disclosure of the true face of the English Shi’ah as “divine grace” and emphasized, “It is a pleasure that this movement exposed its true face quickly and with less damage and showed its indiscretion until proof for those who are ignorant and neglectful and inclined towards the Shirazi sect and phenomenon was finalized. They realized that this is not a genuine, religious or Shi’ah phenomenon but rather it’s a phenomenon that has been created and handled by the hands of the colonialists.” He explained that a little wisdom by this movement was enough to understand the popular power of the Islamic establishment, saying, “Some believe that the movements and tensions of the monarchist groups and the hypocrites are due to their illusion that they imagine the fall and end of the Islamic Republic. This is unlikely because those who have little rationality in their calculations know that they cannot divert a powerful and popular system from its path or overthrow it by firing a few firecrackers and street protests, although they say something else in the media.” Mahdi Shahi, Rasa News Agency