Time : Wednesday, April 4, 2018 News ID: 437094 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Takes Control of Several Regions after Popular Uprising against Terrorists Rasa - The Syrian army units managed to impose full control over several villages and settlements in Southeastern Hama, sources reported on Tuesday. RNA - The army's advances came after the local population forced the militants to join the peace process. "The militants were forced to join the reconciliation plan with the army and leave the settlements and villages of Taqsis, al-Amarah, al-Mashyah, al-Jamqaliyeh and Jour Abu Dardah in Southeastern Hama after a popular uprising against terrorists in the region. They went on to say that the army later entered the villages and settlements. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Hama The Syrian Army troops managed to impose full control over several villages and settlements in Southeastern Hama after the local population forced the militants to join the peace process, field sources reported on Tuesday. The sources reported that the militants were forced to join the reconciliation plan with the army and leave the settlements and villages of Taqsis, al-Amarah, al-Mashyah, al-Jamqaliyeh and Jour Abu Dardah in Southeastern Hama after a popular uprising against terrorists in the region. They went on to say that the army later entered the villages and settlements. Militants in the villages and farms of Zour Alash, Jomaqliyeh, Taqsis Zour, Abu Daradah, Romaylah, Qabihah, Hanifah, Akshan, al-Mashdaho al-Amarah and al-Mashdah had had also earlier endorsed peace with the army. In the meantime, Hama Governor General Mohammad al-Hazwari said that based on the peace agreement some of the militants were forced to leave the region and their remaining pockets handed over their arms and applied for government amnesty. He further said that government institutions and bodies and public amenities are soon to be back into service in the newly-freed regions in Southeastern Hama. Damascus Two notorious commanders of Jeish al-Islam were assassinated by unknown raiders in the town of Douma after tensions erupted among the militants over a final decision to stay or retreat from their main Damascus bastion, field sources in Eastern Ghouta reported on Tuesday. The sources said that Jeish al-Islam's Administrative Head Abu Ali al-Ajwah and Jeish al-Islam's Financial Head Abu Omar al-Ajwah were gunned down by unknown attackers in Douma, adding that assassination of Jeish al-Islam members, specially those who know the group's secrets has increased in Douma. They went on to say that a large number of militants have defected Jeish al-Islam after it joined a peace agreement with the Syrian Army to withdraw from Douma, adding that a number of militants, meantime, have called for relocation to Idlib, some for Jarabulus in Northern Hama and some for the region under the Ankara-led Euphrates Shield forces' control. Field sources said Sunday Jeish al-Islam militants reached a Russia-mediated agreement with the Syrian Army troops on handing over the key town of Douma. The sources said that based on the agreement some of Jeish al-Islam militants from Douma will be evacuated to the town of Jarabulus (under the control of the Turkish-backed militants) in Northeastern Aleppo while other fighters would reconcile with the Syrian government. Russian military police were poised to soon enter Douma where they would establish evacuation corridors, monitor the militants'withdrawal and host temporary humanitarian infrastructures. Furthermore, Jeish al-Islam is to hand over all hostages (civilians and troops) to the Syrian Army as well as the corpses of fallen government ranks. While it is unknown whether or not the Syrian Army will enter Douma anytime soon, all government institutions once housed in the town are to be immediately reinstated; civil servants are to return to their jobs at these places. Deir Ezzur The Syrian Army troops continued their mop-up operation in the Eastern province of Deir Ezzur and found a large volume of arms and ammunition made by NATO member countries and Israel in regions that were previously held by the ISIL terrorists on Tuesday. The army men carried out a fresh round of cleansing operation in the villages of al-Salehiyeh, al-Dowayer, al-Kashmeh and Sabikhan in Eastern Deir Ezzur, and discovered several arms and ammunition depots of ISIL in the region. Army officers said a large volume of arms, ammunition, explosives, chemical materials and suicide belts have been found in the depots. According to Fars News Agancy, the officers said a number of Israel-made rockets and missiles and several 155mm caliber cannons made by NATO member states were among the weapons discovered in the depots. Aleppo Tens of terrorists have been killed in a fresh round of clashes between Syria's Tahrir Front and Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) in Northern Syria, local sources said on Tuesday. The Tahrir al-Sham and Syria's Tahrir Front engaged in heavy fighting after a one-day truce ended in Western Aleppo, the sources said, adding that the infighting left tens gunmen dead on both sides and tens of others wounded. The sources said that Tahrir al-Sham stormed the positions of Syria's Tahrir Front in Western Aleppo from Dar al-Izzah region and the settlements of Rahab and Maklabis.