- و ... اما وجه تمایز GoPro Quik نسبت به سایر نرم افزارهای مشابه در چیست؟ رابط کاربری ساده و آسان به همراه حجم کم نرم افزار سبب شده است تا کاربران زیادی در سرتاسر دنیا جهت ویرایش ویدیو و عکس از این نرم افزار کاربردی استفاده کنند. همچنین شما می توانید با استفاده از این نرم افزار تگ گذاری آهنگ‌های مورد نظر خود را انجام دهید. 
GoPro Quik (formerly GoPro Studio) for Mac is the easiest way to offload and enjoy your GoPro photos and videos. Automatically offload your footage and keep everything organized in one place, so you can find your best shots fast. Make quick edits and share your favorite photos and videos straight to Facebook and YouTubeTM, or use the bundled GoPro Quik (formerly GoPro Studio) for Mac for more advanced editing, including GoPro templates, slow-motion effects and more. 
Offload + enjoy your GoPro footageThe GoPro App automatically imports the files from your camera or SD card and keeps all your GoPro photos and videos organized in one place. Find what you’re looking for fast, then get right to editing and sharing your favorite shots.Create easy-to-share contentIt’s easy to make quick edits and share with your friends. Trim videos to create short clips, then post them directly to Facebook or YouTube™. Share your burst and time–lapse photo sequences as unique videos, or pull high-quality still images from videos for easy sharing.Powerful tools for editing burst + time‑lapse photosAutomatically create a video from a burst or time-lapse photo sequence. You can also make a short clip of your favorite frames, or save an individual shot. And since the app displays photo sequences as single thumbnails, your media stays organized and easy to browse.Easily find + HiLight your best momentsHiLight Tag makes it more convenient than ever to find—and keep track of—your best shots. See a great moment while viewing your videos or photos? Add a HiLight to mark the shot for easy editing and sharing later on.Rotate videos + photo sequencesIf you captured footage while your camera was mounted upside down, you can easily rotate videos or entire photo sequences to the correct orientation for viewing and editing.Keep your GoPro up to dateGet the best performance from your GoPro. The app makes it easy to update your camera with the latest features for optimal performance.Includes GoPro Studio for more advanced editingThe GoPro App comes bundled with GoPro Studio for more advanced video editing, including drag-and-drop GoPro templates, slow-motion effects and more. GoPro Studio Features: - Optimized for offloading, organizing and sharing GoPro photos and videos- Includes powerful features for viewing and editing burst and time-lapse photos- HiLight Tags help you quickly find your best moments- Simple video trimming tools make it easy to create and share short clips- Comes bundled with GoPro Studio for more advanced editing- Updates your GoPro with the latest features for optimal performance- Features a variety of powerful editing tools- Drag-and-drop templates help fast-track you to an incredible GoPro-style edit- Trim and mix video clips, and add titles, music and audio tracks- FluxTM enables super smooth ultra slow–motion and fast–motion speed changes- Create videos from time–lapse photo sequences- Apply fisheye reduction to your shots More info (open/close) 
OS X 10.10 or Later مشخصات