- داشتن نشانگر دانلود با درصد- بسیار آسان برای استفاده و بدون پیچیدگی خاصی- پشتیبانی کامل از YouTube, Google Video, MySpaceTV- ا مک ان دانلود فیلم های با کیفیت بالا مانند 1080- قابلیت قطع دانلود و شروع در زمانی که شما می خواهید- و ... اما وجه تمایز Ummy Video Downloader نسبت به سایر نرم افزارهای مشابه در چیست؟ نرم افزار Ummy Video Downloader برای دانلود فیلم از یوتوب ساخته شده است که جز قدرتمند ترین دانلودرها به حساب می آید. سایت ویدیویی یوتوب یکی از معروف ترین و بزرگترین سایت های پخش کلیپ و فیلم می باشد که کاربران می توانند به صورت آنلاین به دیدن برنامه های مورد علاقه خود بپردازند. این سایت از طریق پلیر مخصوص خود برنامه ها را پخش می کند و اجازه دانلود فیلم ها کلیپ ها را به طور مستقیم به کاربران خود نمی دهد. به همین دلیل برنامه های زیادی جهت دانلود مستقیم از این سایت ساخته شده که از معتبرترین آنها می توان به نرم افزار Ummy Video Downloader اشاره کرد. این نرم افزار به راحتی به شما این امکان را می دهد که لینک مورد نظر خود از فیلم داخل سایت یوتیوب را وارد کرده و به صورت خودکار نرم افزار شروع به دانلود آن می کند. 
Ummy Video Downloader - a program to download any video from YouTube. The program will help you to save YouTube video to your computer in video format and to audio. You can save to a local folder of any clip in an accessible format for it and as. At any time you can view and listen to the stored material, even without Internet access. 
While there are a lot of applications or web services that can help you download videos from YouTube, many have trouble extracting high-definition clips over 720p in resolution.Ummy Video Downloader does not suffer from this limitation, as it allows you to save any YouTube clip on your Mac of resolutions up to 4320p, as well as rip audio tracks and save them as MP3 files.Easy-to-use OS X app that can help you download videos with very little effortUsing Ummy Video Downloader could not be easier, as you simply need to copy a clip’s YouTube link and bring up the application’s main window. It automatically extracts the URL from the clipboard, so that all you have to do is press the download button.You can then get on with your other tasks, as the app displays a notification when the a download has been completed.Save high-definition YouTube videos on your Mac, regardless of their resolutionWhen the application has detected a clip’s URL, it allows you to select which version you wish to copy. However, it should be noted that if you want to download a video in multiple resolutions, the app does not rename them automatically, so the previous one will be overwritten.Also, only one video can be downloaded at a time, and the application cannot process entire playlists.It is possible to extract audio tracks from YouTube videos, so that you can save your favorite songs as MP3 files.Minimalistic interface that could be improved in a few respectsYou can view the video’s thumbnail to ensure you are not downloading the wrong clip, although it would be nice if you could disable this function, so as to minimize the app’s screen space usage. Also, the only way to clear the downloaded items list is to restart the application.We get the impression that Ummy Video Downloader would function much better as a menu bar app, as it would always be within reach without getting in your way.All in all, though, this is a useful tool that can help you download high-definition YouTube videos or convert them to MP3 audio files in just a few simple steps. More info (open/close) 
OS X 10.9 or later, 64-bit processor مشخصات 
قیمت: 29.99 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 36 مگابایت