Time : Friday, April 6, 2018 News ID: 437113 Qom Friday Prayer Leader: Foreign versions don’t solve the problems of the country Rasa – Ayatollah Hoseyni-Bushehri argued that there are some who don’t believe in the capacities of the country both in the government and among the people, which is a serious problem. RNA – In his Friday prayer sermon to a large and fervent crowd of believers in Qom’s Quds Prayer Hall, Ayatollah Seyyed Hashem Hoseyni-Bushehri said that the honesty of the authorities and the sympathy of the people has led to the dignity of society and said, “Another feature of an honourable society is jihadism and the enemies cannot take a left look at such a society.” The member of the Supreme Council of the Seminary added, “After important jihads like the eight-year-long Sacred Defense [Iran-Iraq War], today, we are witnessing the lofty dignity of the country and the enemies cannot make a mistake because the fighters, jihadists and devotees are present on the scene.” In the second sermon, he offered his condolences on martyrdom of Imam Musa al-Kadhim, saying, “At the age of 55, Imam al-Kadhim was poisoned by Harun al-Rashid and was martyred. All the Imams were influential and influential in their own time, and made remarkable changes by educating their students in order to create a healthy religious environment, but the enemies didn’t tolerate it.” Ayatollah Hoseyni-Bushehri added, “The Ahlul-Bayt were popular in the hearts of the people and the enemies feared this. Imam al-Kadhim advised us not to commit sins which have no precedence in society since new tribulations will be revealed.” The member of the Society of Seminary Teachers of Qom also offered his condolences on the martyrdom anniversaries of Ayatollah Sayyid Muhammad-Baqir al-Sadr, Sayyed Mortaza Avini and Ali Sayad-Shirazi, saying, “Ayatollah al-Sadr’s works and compilations are a source of pride for the Islamic world. He told his companions that today, Imam Khomeyni holds the flag of Islam and we must follow them.” He emphasized the attention of the government and the people to the slogan of the Iranian year of 1397, saying, “In line with the economic slogans of the past several years, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution [Ayatollah Khamenei] named 1397 the year of ‘Support for Iranian Products.’ If the people, manufacturers and authorities work together, they can reopen closed factories and return the unemployed youth to work.” Ayatollah Hoseyni-Bushehri pointed out that Iranian goods must be of good quality and have affordable prices. Support for Iranian goods has political, social and cultural aspects and is the solution to the employment and economic problems. The authorities must not suffice with statements and by putting up banners and hold meetings. Referring to the speech of the Supreme Leader at the Holy Shrine of Imam al-Ridha on March 21st and the 39-year record of the Islamic Revolution, he added, “[Ayatollah Khamenei] spoke about the fundamental principles of the Revolution and said that the brilliant people stand firm upon the slogans of the Revolution. After 39 years of ups and downs, we have to put our hardships behind us but we must identify the obstacles to reach the goals.” His Eminence argued that there are some who don’t believe in the capacities of the country both in the government and among the people, which is a serious problem and added, “We must believe in our abilities and give the youth a chance not to wait for foreign versions. Unfortunately, some also fall to factionalism and the actions of consider others to be worthless and must be abandoned.” Ayatollah Hoseyni-Bushehri called for serious struggle against corruption to be determined by the people and the authorities and added that the lifestyle of the people must be based on religious orders and said, “The Leader said that there is no problem which can’t be resolved. Of course, the enemies create problems but they don’t have the ability to fight a revolutionary nation with the motivation and the will of Iran.” The Friday prayer leader of Qom described the conditions of the region as alarming, saying, “The Zionists have murdered many Palestinians. What is worrying for the people and leaders of Palestine is the words of some Arab leaders who state that the Zionist regime has the right to be present in occupied territories.” Ayatollah Hoseyni-Bushehri noted, “The output of the lobbies and negotiations in the United States is that Iran is the common enemy of the Zionist regime and Saudi Arabia. Isn’t it a shame for a country which is a claimant of Islam, Arabism and the defense of the Palestinian people? We hope that we will witness divine assistance and favours, just like other issues, in this matter.” The member of the Board of the Assembly of Experts appreciated and thanked those involved in providing services to the people during the Norouz holidays.