- Converting to black and white- Toning- Adding texture After Effects Guru: Character Animator Get up and running with Character Animator, the motion capture animation tool in After Effects CC. Character Animator can speed up your character-driven animation projects exponentially—eliminating keyframes and time-consuming dialog matching. AE Guru Ian Robinson starts you off by working with Character Animator templates. Then it's time to build characters with custom controls for animation, such as subpuppet attachment points and layer handles. Ian then shows how to drive animation with your mouse or touchscreen device, and control facial expressions, mouth positions, and body parts like hands, arms, and legs. He even shows you how to map keystrokes to drive animation in real time with body and head rotation or advanced physics simulations. Lastly, he reviews puppet behaviors for smoothing and transforming character motion, and shows how to refine, edit, and export recordings. The final output from Character Animator can be rendered with After Effects, Premiere Pro, or even Adobe Media Encoder. Topics include: - Using face tracking to drive animation- Mapping keyboard keys to drive poses- Driving poses with a mouse- Adding physics to animation- Creating custom characters After Effects Guru: Templates for Premiere Pro and After Effects Video editors look to enhance their projects by using motion graphic templates to spice up their work. In this course, learn how to work with and create After Effects text templates that you can modify later in Adobe Premiere Pro. Nick Harauz breaks down how complicated templates are designed, and how to get more comfortable with tweaking them. Plus, he shows how to create your own mosaic template to update inside of Premiere. Topics include: - Modifying AE text templates in Premiere- Adding shapes and expressions to the text animation- Understanding composition structure- Modifying text and replacing visible graphics- Adjusting global controls- Breaking down your template idea- Building a photo mosaic- Adding a camera to the animation After Effects Guru: Creating Presets and Controllers How much time in your After Effects workflow do you spend applying simple key frames to layers in your composition, such as fade in and fade out? Wouldn't it be easier to save those effects as presets, so you don't have to recreate them? Follow Nick Harauz as he shows how to build presets that you can use in future projects. In this course, Nick explains how to create text presets, textures, and useful backgrounds. Plus, he looks at ways to control multiple layers in a project through expressions, null objects, and blending tricks. By the end of the course, you're equipped to develop your own library of presets, so that when you tackle your next After Effects project, you'll have an arsenal of custom effects and content that can help expedite your work. Topics include: - Creating custom vignette and fractal noise presets- Creating a custom texture library- Using a null object to control layered graphics- Using the interpolation expression to link values- Setting up a Universal Color Control- Using prebuild expressions to drive camera animation and depth of field- Creating a control layer to delay layer animation- Saving your control layers and expressions After Effects Guru: Using Generator Effects Generator effects can be used to solve many problems when creating motion graphics and VFX projects—and to add unique creative twists you can't replicate with other After Effects tools. In this course, author Ian Robinson shows how to use generator effects to attach multiple layers, create animated glints and highlights, achieve better blended composites, and more. Follow along as he introduces a variety of next-level mograph techniques for creating interesting backgrounds, repeating graphic elements, and applying 2D and 3D type treatments, and walks through a complete map-based infographic generated with effects like Grid, Stroke, Vegas, Write-on, and Radio Waves. Topics include: - Creating graphic elements such as repeating shapes and gradients- Creating a map animation- Adding highlights to 2D and 3D text- Blending composites After Effects Guru: Advanced Photoshop Integration After Effects has a powerful toolset, but there are some things Photoshop just excels at. Namely, manipulating raw images, color, and perspective. If you're a Creative Cloud subscriber, you have access to the entire suite of applications. So why not take advantage of both toolsets? In this course, Rich Harrington shows video professionals how to fully integrate Photoshop into a variety of After Effects workflows, including repairing images and building new assets for motion graphics and video effects. Learn how to properly develop and then optimize raw files to increase performance in After Effects, and use Photoshop's advanced typographic controls. Find out how to use layer styles to add bevels, overlays, and glows, and correct lens distortion, chromatic aberration, and vignetting. Rich also introduces a unique use for Vanishing Point, which allows you to export 3D objects for parallax movements and virtual sets. Plus, discover how to save out depth mattes for backdrops and keying, and use the powerful Content-Aware tools for background plates, set extensions, or recomposing assets. There's a lot to learn! Start watching to incorporate Photoshop's advanced tools into your next After Effects project. Topics include: - Preparing Photoshop files for transfer- Working with raw images- Using Photoshop's advanced typographic controls- Designing with layer styles- Correcting lens issues and artifacts- Creating perspective with Vanishing Point- Creating LUTs with Photoshop- Creating realistic focus effects for backdrops and keying- Mastering the Content-Aware tools After Effects Guru: Animating Infographics Learn how to animate infographics with Adobe After Effects! Many infographic elements begin life in applications like Illustrator, Photoshop, or PowerPoint. But these assets can be flat and boring; animation is what brings them to life. In this course, After Effects guru Ian Robinson covers animating charts and graphs with shape layers, layer masks, and stroke and text animators. He also shows how to use expressions to link animation between different graphic elements, build dynamic camera moves, and create some animated 3D infographics with CINEMA 4D Lite. To finish things off, he'll look at some third-party tools such as Cinema Spice Charts & Graphs for After Effects and aescripts, which help speed up some of the techniques you learned earlier in the course. Topics include: 2 - 1. Preparing Files for Animation3 - 2. Animating Single Infographic Elements with After Effects4 - 3. Fine-Tuning Animation for Greater Impact5 - 4. Creating 3D Infographics with CINEMA 4D Lite6 - 5. Creating 3D Infographics with CINEMA 4D Lite7 - Conclusion Lynda – After Effects Guru: Keying with Keylight Keylight is a powerful keyer turned After Effects plugin. It was developed for use in features films and is now available with every copy of After Effects. In this course, Luisa Winters helps you understand what keying is, how Keylight works, and how to get the best green-screen footage from your shoot while in production. Then she demonstrates basic keying and techniques for refining mattes, using masks, and correcting color. Use these tips to create your own amazing composites in After Effects. It all starts with a great key! Topics include: