Time : Friday, April 6, 2018 News ID: 437117 Senior Cleric Condemns Israel for Continued Crimes Against Palestinians Rasa - Tehran's provisional Friday Prayers Leader Ayatollah Seyed Ahmad Khatami strongly blasted the Tel Aviv regime for continuing its atrocities against the Palestinians and massacring the innocent people of that country, and strongly criticized the Arab countries for keeping mum about the crime. RNA - Addressing a large and fervent congregation of the people in Tehran on Friday, Ayatollah Khatami said, "The Islamic World should show reaction to these crimes, because they (Palestinians) are Muslims." The senior cleric said that the history of negotiations with the "Zionist regime shows that a compromise with Tel Aviv rulers is not only a strategic mistake, but also an ultimate betrayal" of the cause of Palestine. At least 21 people have been killed by the Israel's occupying forces since Palestinians started Land Day protests last Friday. Friday, Gazans marched to the fence with the occupied lands at the start of a six-week protest, dubbed “The Great March of Return,” demanding the right to return for Palestinians driven out of their homeland. The first day of the demonstrations turned violent after Israeli forces used tear gas and live fire against the Palestinians, killing 18 and injuring almost 1,500 Gazans. Prior to the mass demonstration, the Israeli military had deployed special forces, including 100 snipers to Gaza’s border, and authorized its forces to open fire on unarmed protesters. Multiple human rights organizations have come out in full condemnation of Israel’s violent raids on the civilian mass protests in the besieged sliver. Human Rights Watch has slammed Israel’s killing of Palestinian protesters as “unlawful” and “calculated,” saying those officials who authorized the Israeli military to use lethal force ahead of the mass rallies in Gaza are to blame for the bloodshed. On Saturday, the Security Council held an emergency meeting over the mass killing by Israeli forces, but failed to condemn the regime as the US hindered a final statement against its ally. According to Fars News Agancy, Hamas has urged the Arab League to file a lawsuit with the International Criminal Court (ICC) against Israel over the crimes. Israel has defended its use of lethal force, claiming that its forces opened fire only when necessary. The Return rallies culminate on May 15, the day Palestinians commemorate Nakba Day (Day of Catastrophe) when hundreds of thousands fled or were driven out of their homes in 1948, the year Israel was created.