Time : Friday, April 6, 2018 News ID: 437123 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Inflicts Heavy Losses on Terrorists in Deir Ezzur Province Rasa - The Syrian army hit hard the terrorists' military positions and hardware in the Southeastern part of Deir Ezzur province. RNA - The Syrian army troops attacked the ISIL's last positions in Southeastern Deir Ezzur on Thursday, regaining control over several regions between the towns of Sabikhan and al-Salehiyeh. The terrorists in Deir Ezzur province sustained heavy losses in tough battle with the Syrian army. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. The Syrian army continued military operations to cleanse Eastern Deir Ezzur from ISIL terrorists. The Syrian army troops attacked the ISIL's last positions in Southeastern Deir Ezzur on Thursday, regaining control of several regions between the towns of Sabikhan and al-Salehiyeh. They also destroyed several ISIL hideouts West of the Euphrates river, seizing a large number of weapons and ammunition and a big warehouse of the terrorists' bomb-laden cars in the region. Meantime, a field source underlined the army's continued military operations on the Western bank of the Euphrates river, adding that the Syrian army soldiers intend to purge the entire region of terrorists. Hama-Idlib The Syrian army pounded the al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) positions and moves in Hama and Idlib during heavy airstrikes and ground operations. The Syrian army units engaged in heavy clashes with the al-Nusra terrorists in Eastern Idlib, bordering Northeastern Hama, on Thursday, killing a large number of them and smashing their military equipment. Meantime, the army's artillery units targeted the terrorists' strongholds and moves in the village of Kafr Zita and al-Latamina in Northeastern Hama, destroying several bases and killing a number of militants. The Syrian air force also launched airstrikes on the al-Nusra and other terrorist groups' moves and positions in Hama, specially regions near Zizon thermal power plant in Sahl al-Qab and the town of al-Zaqoum, inflicting heavy tolls and damage on the militants. Damascus A senior commander of Faylaq al-Rahman terrorist group surrendered to the Syrian army forces as they intensified purging operations in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus. The Arabic-language al-Masdar news website reported on Thursday that security commander of Faylaq al-Rahman Ismail al-Saqir nom de guerre Abu Salamou surrendered himself as well as a large number of his comrades and received amnesty from the Syrian government after the Syrian army's extensive advances in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus. It added that several other senior commanders of Faylaq al-Rahman also surrendered to the army. Eastern Ghouta of Damascus will be fully cleansed of terrorists once evacuation of militants and their family members from Douma is complete. Meantime, the Syrian army found a number of workshops and facilities in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus that had been used by Jeish al-Islam terrorist group to produce chemical weapons and toxic gases. The Arabic service of Sputnik news agency quoted Colonel Fazl Maryam, an official at the Syrian army's department to prevent chemical attacks, as saying that one of the plants has been traced in the town of al-Shifouniyeh in Eastern Ghouta used by Jeish al-Islam to produce Nitro-glycol with a blast power several times more than TNT through a combination of glycol (that is used in vehicles' air conditioner), acetone and hydrogen peroxide. He added that the army has also discovered a well-equipped chemical workshop, including a laboratory and a room to produce toxic chloride and explosive chemicals and capsules. According to Maryam, the Syrian army has also found documents written in English which show the presence of foreign experts among the terrorists who helped them with the production of the chemical weapons. Colonel Maryam also said that packages of raw materials needed to produce toxic chloride as well as toxic cyanogen acid have been discovered in Jeish al-Islam facilities in Eastern Ghouta, adding that the raw materials had been imported from Turkey. The report came one day after Russian President Vladimir Putin said Moscow has information about terrorists’ attempts to stage provocations with the use of chemical agents. Hasaka The Turkish army launched an offensive on the positions of Kurdish militias in Hasaka province near the border with Turkey as tensions between Ankara and the Kurds have intensified in Northern Syria. Field sources said on Thursday that the Turkish army has attacked the Kurdish forces' positions on the road leading to the village of Simalka near the village of Kharab Rashk at the Syrian-Turkish border in Northeastern Hasaka with artillery fire, wounding two Kurds. They added that the Kurds also responded the offensive by pounding the Turkish army positions at the Syrian-Russian borders. Meantime, reports said that 4 Kurdish forces were killed after a bomb was detonated in their vehicle near al-Shadadi region in Southern Hasaka. Aleppo Mediation efforts by militants to stop infighting between Syria's Tahrir Front and Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) in Northern Syria have failed as bloody battles still continue between the two rival terrorist groups. Field sources reported on Thursday that Syria's Tahrir Front has launched heavy attacks on Tahrir al-Sham positions in the town of Kafr Naha in Western Aleppo, leading to heavy infighting between them. They added that at least 2 armored vehicles of Syria's Tahrir Front were destroyed and a number of militants of both sides were killed. Meantime, fierce infighting was reported between the two terrorist groups near the town of Dar al-Izza in Western Aleppo, inflicting casualties on both. Tahrir al-Sham announced that it will continue the fight until Syria's Tahrir Front retreats from the regions earlier occupied by the former, as efforts are underway by influential militant figures to stop clashes between the two sides. Raqqa People in Raqqa hoisted the country's official flag in the city after popular uprising against the US occupation. According to Fars News Agancy, field sources reported that a group of people in Raqqa named 'popular forces in the Eastern Region' hoisted the Syrian government's flag over one of the buildings of Raqqa city on Wednesday. They also vowed to fight against the US forces and their affiliated militants in the region, according to the sources. Tensions and clashes have increased between Raqqa residents and the American and US-backed Kurdish forces in recent days.