دسته: نرم افزار » مالتی مدیا » ضبط و ویرایش صوت MAGIX Sound Forge Pro مجموعه‌ای از پردازشگرهای صوتی، ابزارها و Effect های موثر در زمینه‌ی ویرایش فایل های صوتی می‌باشد. این نرم افزار یکی از برنامه‌های قدرتمند در زمینه‌ی ضبط صدا، ویرایش، پردازش و رمزگذاری فایل چند رسانه‌ای می‌باشد. با ترکیب این برنامه با هر کارت صوتی سازگار با ویندوز می‌توان به راحتی به ضبط، ویرایش و ساخت فایل‌های صوتی پرداخت. با بهره گیری از واسط کاربری واضح و آسان این نرم افزار، عمل ویرایش به سادگی هر چه تمام تر ا مک ان پذیر است. به کمک این نرم افزار می‌توان فایل‌های صوتی و تصویری را با فرمت‌های گوناگون مانند WAV ،WMA ،RM ،AVI و MP3 ضبط و ذخیره نمود. با بیش از 10 سال تجربه، Sound Forge استانداردهایی در زمینه‌ی ویرایش حرفه‌ای صدا معرفی نموده است. اجرای اعمالی چون Cut ،Paste ،Mix ،CrossFade و Delete بر روی فایل‌های صوتی با سرعت‌های ناموازی و دقت بسیار بالا از امکانات قابل ذکر این نرم افزار می‌باشد. 
قابلیت‌های کلیدی نرم افزار SONY Sound Forge Pro: - ابزاری در زمینه‌ی کار بر روی فایل‌های صوتی- قابلیت بازگشت آسان به اصل پروژه به منظور ادامه دادن عمل ویرایش- پنجره‌ی لیست پخش به روز شده- کپی گیری آمار بر روی کلیپ بورد به منظور مقایسه‌ی فایل‌های مختلف- سرعت و آسانی در زمینه‌ی مشاهده‌ی دوباره و باز کردن فایل‌های صوتی- پشتیبانی از ASIO- قابلیت ضبط و اجرای دوباره- ضبط خودکار بر اساس زمان تعیین شده انتخاب زمان شروع، پایان و مدت ضبط- بهره مندی از Buffer ضبط مجدد- بهره مندی از ابزار جدید Scrub برای جستجوی نواحی موجود در فایل صوتی 
SONY Sound Forge Pro is a professional tool that you can use to edit your audio files. It's not easy to work with, so first-time users with no experience in the audio editing department will probably have trouble managing it; the interface is clearly defined, and the elements of Sound Forge Pro are well organized. 
After you import an audio file, you can start making the desired changes. So, you can play with various effects (acoustic mirror, amplitude modulation, chorus, delay, echo, distortion, pitch, reverb etc) and processes (auto trim, fade, invert, normalize, reverse, smooth etc).Moreover, you can organize your favorite sound effects, play with tools (e.g. noise reduction, click and crackle removal, clipped peak restoration), or convert audio files (via Batch Converter under the Tools menu). Sound Forge Pro also gives you access to directly extract audio from CDs, get media from the web, and burn an audio CD.During an active run of this application, system memory is heavily used, so it's better you close any other processes when working with Sound Forge Pro.We weren't able to find any bugs or errors in this software. If rookies want to start an adventure with Sound Forge Pro, they will be happy to know there's a well-developed help file they can check out, one that accurately describes every single detail of the program. 
In conclusion, Sound Forge Pro is a real paradise for audio editing enthusiasts, but even beginners can have fun with it. The price for the full version might be considered too much by certain users, but that's what you pay for professional tools. Here are some key features of "Sound Forge Pro": - General Features- Rendered Media Path Saving- Media rendered with Sound Forge 8 software include the project path, so you can easily return to the source Sound Forge project if you want to resume editing.- Updated Regions List and Playlist Windows- The Regions List and Playlist windows in Sound Forge 8 have new features for faster in-place editing and sorting. Quickly edit regions by typing new values in the Name, Start, End, or Length fields.- Copy Statistics to Clipboard- With Sound Forge 8 software, you can now copy the contents of the Statistics window to the clipboard for easy comparison of multiple files.- Windows XP theme support- New UI color preferences, icon tint saturation, and Windows XP theme support allows for complete customization of the Sound Forge 8 workspace.- 24-Bit, 32-Bit/64-Bit Float/192 kHz Support- Sound Forge software supports full resolution 24-bit/32-bit 192 kHz files for the ultimate in audio fidelity. Capture the subtle overtones and nuances of instruments, vocals, and effect changes that 24-bit audio provides. With Sound Forge audio software you can import, save, and even record to this resolution if your hardware supports it.- Media Explorer with Automatic File Previewing- Quickly and easily find, preview, and open media files using the Media Explorer window. Drag files and regions from the Explorer into the workspace or onto another open file for easy pasting, mixing, or crossfading. Explore audio files on a CD-ROM and extract automatically by dragging from the Explorer into the Sound Forge workspace.- Recording / playback- ASIO driver support- Sound Forge 8 software includes low-latency ASIO driver support, providing faster, professional results, and access to support of additional soundcards.- VU Meters for RMS Playback and Record Monitoring- Accurately determine RMS volume levels and provide greater perceived loudness control when mastering audio projects.- Automated time-based recording- Set the record timer to start and stop based on your computer's system clock. Choose start time, duration, and end time. Items may be scheduled to record on minute, daily, or weekly basis.- Audio Threshold Record Triggering- Configure Sound Forge software to record when a predetermined audio input level reaches a preset threshold. Recording continues as long as the level is exceeded, and stops after the threshold is no longer maintained. Perfect for unattended and offsite recording, dictation, or any time you want to record away from your computer. Also record audio when MIDI timecode is detected. Sensitivity settings are customizable with user-definable threshold and release patterns.- Prerecord buffer- Eliminate dropouts and missed audio at the start of a recording with the prerecord buffer.- Editing/Workflow- Audio Scrubbing- Use the new scrub tool to quickly and easily find areas in your audio file. Sound Forge 8 also supports JKL keyboard commands for shuttle control to quickly find sections.- Customizable Keyboard Mapping- With Sound Forge 8 software it has never been easier to set custom key commands for frequently used processes.- Real-Time Editing and Processing- Edit files nondestructively in real-time at the sample level and hear your changes immediately.- Waveform Volume and Pan Envelopes- Sound Forge software has Volume and Pan Envelopes that let you visually add precise changes in your audio file over time for easier mixing.- Graphical Fade Curves- Perform quick and easy graphic fades, fade-ins, fade-outs, and crossfades. Fast, slow, smooth, sharp, and hold fade types are available in the Graphic Fade, Pan/Expand, Pitch-Bend, Envelope, and FM Synthesis dialogs.- Multitask Background Rendering- Work on one file while Sound Forge software processes another with multitask background rendering. More info (open/close) 
You require a 64-bit version of one the following operating systems:Windows 10/8/7