Iran-Turkmenistan electricity transmission problem to be resolved soon News ID: 4264626 - Economy TEHRAN, Apr. 07 (MNA) – Turkmenistan energy minister assured that problem facing second line of power transmission between the two countries of Iran and Turkmenistan will be resolved in the shortest time possible. 
In a joint meeting with Turkmenistan Energy Minister Charimirat Purchekov, Iranian Minister of Energy Reza Ardakanian, who has travelled to Turkmenistan capital Ashgabat in order to follow up relevant agreements made between the presidents of the two countries in the energy field, emphasized that issues related to the water and energy sectors have been the common topics of the two sides in the course of visit of Iranian president to Turkmenistan. 
The energy exchange between the two countries will reach 850 megawatts, he observed. 
The minister also added that the third-line electricity transmission project from Iran, which has been implemented from Mashhad to Sarakhs but which has not yet been implemented from Turkmenistan from Sarakhs to Marv, has been implemented as soon as possible. 
During the talks, it was decided to re-energize the second line of electricity transmission from Turkmenistan to Iran, which, unfortunately, has occurred in the last 6 months without electricity. 
He said the Turkmen delegation will come to Iran to start talks on the implementation of the 500 kV line project next week. 
Ardakanian emphasized that by implementing this line, the capacity of the energy exchange between the two countries will reach 850 megawatts, said: "Besides, we will use Turkmenistan's electricity production at needed times, as well as the possibility of exporting electricity from Turkmenistan to third countries, implementation of this We provide the project. 
Energy Minister Ardekanian went on to say that the second power transmission line from Turkmenistan to Iran will come back on stream after six months of having been out of service. 
Ardakanian, who traveled to Turkmenistan as part of a delegation accompanying President Rouhani, said that “following the negotiations held during today’s meeting, it was decided that the second power transmission line from Turkmenistan to Iran, which has been unfortunately without power for the last six months, to come back on stream in the coming days.” 
He added that a third power transmission line from Iran to Turkmenistan will be completed soon. According to him, the line from Iran’s Mashhad to Sarakhs has been completed, but the line from Sarakhs to Marv has not yet been constructed by the Turkmen’s side. 
He noted that a delegation from Turkmenistan will visit Iran next week to hold talks on the construction of the 500kW power line as the two countries' third power transmission line. 
MA/4264134