Products No one should make the mistake of trying Iran on its national interests, IRGC warns A senior Iranian commander has reiterated the combat readiness of the country’s armed forces, saying the Islamic Republic pursues a defensive deterrent policy in the Persian Gulf and the Sea of Oman. "Iran pursues a defensive deterrent policy in the Persian Gulf and the Sea of Oman through an active and all-out presence," Major General Gholam Ali Rashid, the commander of Khatam al-Anbiya headquarters, said on Saturday, Press TV reported. "The Persian Gulf and the Sea of Oman regions have a special position in the defense-security policies of the Islamic Republic of Iran," he added. The commander stressed the importance of scrutinizing and managing all moves and developments in Iran's southern waters, saying it was necessary to adopt measures in the face of "unforeseen events." “While the Islamic Republic of Iran is monitoring all moves and is ready for any defensive or offensive reaction, it seeks to manage incidents and prevent any escalation of tension or conflict in the region,” Rashid added. He said Iran’s Persian Gulf policy is based on actively interacting and cooperating with neighboring countries, defending regional security and stability and firmly confronting any meddlesome measure by extra-regional powers. The IRGC commander emphasized that the Iranian armed forces would powerfully defend the country's interests in the region and would firmly counter any provocative and destabilizing act in the region. "No country must test Iran's strategic power or try its patience in defending its interests and establishing stability in the region and make a miscalculation," he pointed out. Leader of the Islamic Revolution Ayatollah Seyyed Ali Khamenei said in October that Iran’s defense might was not up for negotiation, stressing the country’s resolve to strengthen its defense capabilities despite enemy attempts to weaken the nation. “When it comes to defense equipment and whatever that backs up the national power, we have no bargaining and deals with the enemy, and will continue on the path of power with more strength than before,” the Leader added. In a meeting with security officials and experts of the IRGC in March, Rashid warned that the Israeli regime would not be able to bear the cost of a possible confrontation with the Islamic Republic. The commander said, "Today, the Zionist regime understands and acknowledges the Islamic Republic of Iran's power in the region more than the past and will avoid testing it, because it cannot manage any confrontation with Iran and bear its cost." SS Apr 07, 2018 19:48 UTC More on this story 