دسته: نرم افزار » مالتی مدیا » ضبط و ویرایش ویدئو RV نرم افزار ساده و کاربردی می باشد که به ک مک آن می توانید به مشاهده و مقایسه ی همزمان نماها و شات های ویدئویی با یکدیگر بپردازید. این نرم افزار عملکرد بالا و سخت افزار سرعتی و قابل موازی کاری دارد. با محیط پروژه شما به خوبی منطبق شده و با ابزارهای کلیدی مانند Nuke, Maya, Deadline و Qube کار می کند. از فرمت هایی که این نرم افزار پشتیبانی می کند می توان از OpenEXR, DPX, Cineon, JPEG, Tiff, Targa, JPEG 2000, H.264, ARRIRAW و RED نام برد. ورودی/ خروجی برای تمامی فرمت های تصاویر می تواند به صورت همزمان کار کند. برای فرمت هایی که اغلب برای پخش دیسک ها به صورت مستقیم استفاده می شود، ورودی/ خروجی در بالاترین عملکرد آماده شده است. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار Tweak Software: - پلت فرم های چندسکویی (Cross Platform) برای سیستم عامل های 64 بیتی ویندوز ، مک و لینوکس- رزولوشن های پخش عمودی 2K از روی RAM یا دیسک- ابزارهای حاشیه نویسی- امکان کنترل از راه دور- امکان اصلاح بی درنگ سخت افزار- مدیریت رنگ ها با امکان پشتیبانی ار محیط پروژه خطی- استریوهای 3 بعدی - و ... 
RV is the next generation image and sequence viewer for VFX and animation artists. RV is high-performance, hardware accelerated, and pipeline-friendly. It adapts to your workflow, runs on Windows, Mac and Linux, and integrates with key tools like Nuke, Maya, Deadline, and Qube!Film Resolution, Uncompressed, High-Dynamic Range Playback from RAM or DiskRV is high performance professional playback and review application optimized for direct from disk and cached RAM playback. So, RV works everywhere from the desktop to the digital theater. Industry Standard Image Support OpenEXR, DPX, Cineon, JPEG, Tiff, Targa, JPEG 2000, H.264, ARRIRAW, RED and Photo/Motion JPEG Quicktime are few of the industry standard formats RV supports out of the box. I/O can be multithreaded (with any number of cores) for all image types. For formats often used for direct from disk playback, I/O options are provided to maximize performance. Nuke, Maya, Shotgun Native Integration RV works directly with Nuke, Maya, and Shotgun out of the box. RV integration goes beyond old-style flipbook workflows to tie the power and flexibility of RV's media handling to leading CG and VFX tools.Mix Resolutions, Color Spaces, File Formats and Framerates on a single TimelineRV's advanced media engine resizes, reformats, retimes, and color manages your media on the fly in real-time so you can mix sources without extra work. Animators can match reference video at any frame rate against their shot at 24fps, supervisors can layer 2K renders over storyboards or half-res animation takes, editors can cut together the latest versions mixing DPX, Exr, Quicktimes of different resolutions. Annotation/Paint Annotation works over sync for remote reviews or you can use it in dailies and desktop reviews. Save your annotations in the session file or export them as snapshots or movies (RVIO license required).Audio Scrubbing/Stepping and Timeline Magnifier with Waveform DisplayRV mixes any number of audio inputs and plays them synchronized with video. RV preserves the pitch of your audio while you chage the frame rate, so your sound track is still recognizable. RV's timeline magnifier shows your waveform and lets you zoom in on a section of the timeline. Multi-Layer Image Handling RV handles multi-layer image files like OpenEXR. You can choose which layer to view and cache, and compare layers with A/B wipes or layouts. Stereoscopic Playback 3D stereo playback comes naturally to RV; anything you can do with one image you can do with stereo images. RV supports: shutter glasses, HDMI 1.4a, DLP projectors, cross-polarized TVs, anaglyph, old-school eye-crossing (and more). RVIO, RV's batch processing program, handles stereo just as easily as RV; it can create stereo multi-track quicktime files and stereo OpenEXR files, or rip stereo sources to individual frames per-eye. 
Here are some key features of "Tweak Software RV": - Cross Platform 64 bit, Linux, Mac OSX, Windows- 2K Uncompressed Playback from RAM or Disk- One-Click Remote Sync for Collaborative Review- Annotation/Paint Tools- Stereo 3D (Active and Passive)- Audio scrubbing/stepping with video sync- Color Management with Support for Linear-Light Workflow- Python Scriptable, Customizable Architecture