دسته: نرم افزار » توسعه وب » طراحی وب شما نیز به عنوان یک طراح و برنامه نویس وب، نیاز دارید که کلیه فرآیند های طراحی و ساخت صفحات وب را بر روی یک سرور محلی انجام ‌دهید، در واقع باید کدهای خود را قبل از قرار گیری در سرورهای ارائه شده توسط سرویس دهنده های اینترنت ی، بر روی سیستم خودتان تست کنید که برای این کار به اجرای سرویس های مختلف مانند آخرین نسخه های پایدار Apache و MySQL و PHP نیازمندید. امروزه نرم افزار های مختلفی همچون Wamp و Xampp به منظور تست پروژه ها بر روی یک سرور محلی و به صورت لوکال هاست طراحی شده اند. MAMP PRO نیز یکی از این نرم افزار های قدرتمند برای شبیه سازی سرور بر روی سیستم شخصی می باشد که با ک مک آن می توانید یک سرور آپاچی را با تمام جزئیات لازم شبیه سازی کرده و به صورت همزمان بر روی چندین پروژه کار کنید و هر زمان که خواستید به آسانی و تنها با چند کلیک ساده آن را فعال یا غیر فعال کنید. امکان تنظیم دی ان اس نیز وجود دارد. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار MAMP PRO: - راه‌اندازی همزمان چندین نسخه مختلف از PHP - راه‌اندازی تعداد نامحدودی سرور مجازی- راه‌اندازی آسان سیستم مدیریت محتوای جوملا، دروپال و وردپرس- تنظیم دی ان اس- ا مک ان دسترسی خارجی از طریق شبکه اینترنت به سرور محلی- امکان تست اسکریپت‌های PHP با سرور ایمیل - امکان روشن و خاموش کردن آسان و سریع ماژول‌های آپاچی- نصب و اجرای آسان- و ... 
Develop and test websites locally. MAMP PRO is the commercial, professional grade version of the classic local server environment: MAMP. Designed for professional web developers and programmers, MAMP PRO allows easy installation and administration of their development environment 
Run different versions of PHP at once MAMP Pro has always offered multiple versions of PHP. This was convenient if you had different projects using different versions of PHP, but required a restart of MAMP PRO when you wanted to change projects. If, for instance, you needed to work on a host which used a different version of PHP, you had to restart the servers and change the PHP version to work on that particular virtual host. With the new MAMP PRO you can configure your PHP versions on a per host basis using CGI Mode. Now you can conveniently switch between virtual hosts using different PHP versions on the fly. Set up any number of virtual servers You can set up and test any number of virtual servers without the danger of affecting your live system. The local name resolution is performed by MAMP PRO. For each project, you can create a virtual host and conveniently test your programs in detail. Whether you create a page using a CMS, integrate a shopping-cart, or create a WordPress template - MAMP PRO is there to provide the perfect test environment. With unlimited server-hosts you can separate all your projects and make them accessible to your local network or even the internet. To simulate a very authentic environment, MAMP PRO can activate the local mail server, as well as the sending of emails via PHP. Install Wordpress, Joomla, Drupal, etc with just one click An Extra is a collection of files or library, which has been tested and configured by the MAMP PRO team. When setting up a new virtual host you can also choose and Extra which will automatically be installed. You can also install Extras on existing hosts. The selection of extras is always being updated and expanded. Allow External Access With MAMP PRO, you can easily connect your local server to the internet with an existing Dynamic DNS provider. You can conveniently provide access to your work to clients and prospects over the internet. With the option to set up many virtual hosts, you can easily offer alternative configurations or suggestions. With MAMP PRO 3.0 the DNS-O-Matic service is integrated. Now you have a huge selection of Dyn-DNS service providers, many of which are free of charge. Test PHP scripts with a Mail-Server Every OS X & Windows computer comes pre-installed with a default Mail-Server. This Mail-Server can be activated through the MAMP PRO interface and it’s functionality used via PHP scripts. With this Mail-Server you can setup up an account through a host provider. This provides a reliable email connection and avoids problems with spam filters. Switch Apache Modules on and off With MAMP PRO you can quickly setup a test environment without the need to install and configure Apache. Work on multiple projects simultaneously in parallel. A staging-server is easily setup up with just a few mouse clicks. Apache modules can be activated and deactivated through the MAMP interface. This allows you to quickly build a custom local server environment to mirror the one on your live server. Lan Access You want to keep a colleague up to date with your current progress? This is now possible via xip.io (Hosts -> General -> Name resolution). Simply click on the Sharing-Button and your email client will be opened with an embedded link to one of your hosts. The receiver of this email can now simply click on the link, taking them directly to the work on your host. Functionality of MAMP MAMP PRO is the commercial, professional grade version of the classic local server environment for OS X. That is, the freely available standard version is automatically installed with MAMP PRO. With MAMP PRO comes all the functionality of MAMP including MySQL, Apache, PHP, Perl, and Python. More info (open/close) 
OS: Windows 10, Windows 8.1 or Windows 7 RAM : 2GB Available HDD space for installation : 2GB مشخصات 
قیمت: 59.00 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 374.3 مگابایت