دسته: نرم افزار » اداری » پرینتر و اسکنر نرم افزار FinePrint یک برنامه کاربردی است که برای بهینه سازی فرایند چاپ اسناد طراحی شده است و به شما ک مک می کند که در مصرف جوهر و کاغذ صرفه جویی کنید. این برنامه درست مانند یک پرینتر مجازی عمل می کند. از جمله قابلیت های دیگر این نرم افزار می توان به افزایش عمر پرینتر، کاهش فضای ذخیره سازی و هزینه های حمل و نقل، اشاره کرد. این نرم افزار برنده جایزه ویژه در زمینه چاپ می باشد که امکانات مفید آن سبب کسب این افتخار شده است. این نرم افزار برای تمامی افرادی که با چاپ سروکار دارند مفید خواهد بود و استفاده از آن به این دسته از افراد توصیه می شود. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار FinePrint: - مدیریت آسان پرینت- نسخه قابل چاپ صفحات متعدد بر روی یک ورق- صرفه جویی در مصرف جوهر و کاغذ- افزایش عمر پرینتر- ترکیب مشاغل متعدد را در یک نسخه قابل چاپ- ایجاد سربرگ ها و فرم های الکترونیکی- نسخه قابل چاپ در سربرگ الکترونیکی- کاهش فضای ذخیره سازی و هزینه های حمل و نقل- حجم کم و استفاده آسان از برنامه- پشتیبانی از نسخه های مختلف ویندوز - و ... 
FinePrint is a software application that's supposed to optimize the document printing process and thus help you save ink and paper by using an innovative preview window.Just like expected, the program will act like a virtual printer on your computer, so in order to access its interface and features, you have to hit the 'Print' button in any of your Windows application. 
Once you're there, there are numerous options waiting for you, all supposed to enhance the document printing process.First of all, FinePrint has an unique printing preview option that allows you to customize the way your pages will look like, giving you the option to add new blank pages or delete certain pages from the project.In addition, if you wish to save ink, FinePrint comes with a dedicated tool to use just black, so all colored text will be converted to that, while photos will be removed from the documents.Another important feature is the one that enables users to print on both sides of the paper, so here you go, another way to save some resources, this time a piece of paper.Last but not least, FinePrint allows document saving in multiple formats, including TIFF, JPEG, BMP, text and FP.Since it plays the role of a virtual printer, you won't need a supercomputer to run it. During our test, the application worked flawlessly on both Windows 7 and Windows XP, so it's safe to say that old machines will run it pretty well.All things considered, FinePrint could come in very handy to many users out there. Very easy to use and with a strong feature pack, the app deserves at least a try. Here are some key features of "FinePrint": - Print Preview: Universal print preview with editing capability. Easily add blank pages, delete pages, and re-sequence jobs.- Ink Saver: Provides options to convert colored text to black and skip graphics.- Multiple Pages on a single sheet: Print 2, 4 or 8 pages on a single sheet of paper.- Watermarks Headers and Footers: Watermark, header and footer option allows documents to be marked with the date, time, system variables or custom text.- Forms and Letterheads: Allows the simplified creation of electronic forms and letterhead. The preview feature shows how output will appear before you print it to ensure correct alignment.- Combine Print Jobs: Allows multiple documents to be combined together as a single print job. This is useful for creating booklets based on web pages, etc.- File saving: Save pages and jobs to TIFF, JPEG, BMP, text and FP formats.- Clipboard Support: Any printed output can be copied to the clipboard in text, bitmap or- Double Sided Printing Support: Booklet making and double sided printing are supported with all documents and printers. Booklets create a professional touch to all documents and are easy to read and carry. Double sided printing cuts paper use in half and reduces travel weight.- Paper Scaling: Allows large pages to be scaled to that they fit on standard paper sizes such as letter or A4.- Adjustable Margins: Margin adjustment allows for increased text sizes for better readability, by using more of the printable area on the page.- Gutter Support: Gutter capability provides space for binding documents.- Multiple FinePrinters: Multiple FinePrinters can be created. This allows the creation of "virtual printers" that have different pre-defined settings. For example, you could have a "booklet printer" that automatically prints a booklet or a "letterhead printer" that prints on your letterhead without the FinePrint dialog box appearing.- Easy server deployment: Install on a server as a shared printer for easy group or enterprise deployment. More info (open/close) 
- Windows 10, 8, 7, Vista, XP sp2 or higher مشخصات 
قیمت: 49.95 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 12.5 مگابایت