Time : Sunday, April 8, 2018 News ID: 437136 Representative of the Supreme Leader in Bushehr: During past years arrogant powers were active against the Islamic establishment but the Revolution endured Rasa – Ayatollah Safaei-Bushehri described the IRGC as one of the main elements of the power of Iran’s Islamic establishment and noted, “Weakening the IRGC will be a source of detraction for the establishment and it is obligatory to strengthen and support it.” RNA – In a meeting with commanders of the Imam Sadiq Brigade of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps (IRGC) in Iran’s southern Bushehr province, Ayatollah Gholamali Safaei-Bushehri described the IRGC as one of the main elements of the power of Iran’s Islamic establishment and added, “This revolutionary organ emerges in various national and transnational arenas and leads to the increase of the honour of the establishment.” The representative of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution [Ayatollah Khamenei] in Bushehr province added that weakening the IRGC is religiously prohibited and stated, “Weakening the IRGC will be a source of detraction for the establishment and it is obligatory to strengthen and support it.” He praised the years after the victory of Iran’s 1979 Islamic Revolution as “glorious,” and added, “During the past 39 years, the arrogant powers of the world were active with all their power, knowledge, experience and facilities against the Islamic establishment but with all the ups and downs that we witnessed, this Revolution was endured.” Ayatollah Safaei-Bushehri said that the greatest victory of the Islamic Revolution of Iran was its endurance and survival and added, “The endurance of the Islamic Revolution of Iran over the past 39 years demonstrates the authority and victory of this Revolution. The Islamic Revolution of Iran has insisted on its ideals, values and slogans for the past 39 years and these ideals and slogans still exist but they have deepened and new ideals have also been added.” The Friday prayer leader of Bushehr stated that insistence and persistence on the ideals and values of the Islamic Revolution has led to a divine mission and the consistency of character with the Islamic establishment and said, “Almost 40 years have passed since the Islamic Revolution. We began with the works and blessings of the Revolution and this year, we will enter the realm of the presentation of the Revolution, just as the ‘Seal of the Prophets’ [the Prophet Muhammad] spent 40 years in the field of divine education and manifested his prophethood at the age of 40.” Referring to the economic arena, he said one of the most important points in the field of the economic establishment is the support of domestic products, “The Supreme Leader named the year 1397 ‘Support for Iranian Products’ because the economy is not just about managing one’s livelihood but rather it is about human life. The economy is an interconnected establishment and is a very strong and relevant network.” Ayatollah Safaei-Bushehri stated, “Supporting domestic products not only means consuming domestic products but also supporting the Islamic establishment.” 112/975