  437142 Minister: Iran Strongest Power Fighting Terrorism in Region Rasa - Interior Minister Abdolreza Rahmani Fazli described Iran as the most powerful country in the fight against terrorist groups in the Middle East. RNA - "Iran has played a major role in stabilizing the region," Rahmani Fazli said on Saturday. He reiterated that Iran is the strongest and biggest power in the region that is fighting against terrorism. The Iranian interior minister underlined that while the Saudi leaders accuse Iran of destabilizing the region and the cause behind the regional insecurity, it was with Tehran's help that terrorist groups like ISIL which were created and financed by the Riyadh government, were defeated. "Before the US presidential election, Trump had said that Saudis were the biggest supporter of ISIL and it should be fought against, but when he visited Saudi Arabia he changed his mind after signing massive contracts with them," Rahmani Fazli added. He further reiterated that the Islamic Republic of Iran is the most powerful and biggest country that is fighting terrorism in the region as the nations and officials of the countries involved are well aware of and confirm, and said that if there had not been with Iran's assistance, the situation would have been different. According to Fars News Agancy, in relevant remarks on Friday, Iraqi President Fouad Massoum underlined that his country will always remember Iran's valuable helps to Iraq in the fight against terrorism, specially the ISIL terrorist group. "We will never forget the Iranian assistance and will also back Iran’s supportive stances regarding our country," President Massoum said in a meeting with Iranian Ambassador to Baghdad Iraj Masjedi. The Iraqi president described Tehran-Baghdad relations as historic with deep cultural roots, and said, "The bilateral ties are currently at excellent level." The Iranian envoy, for his part, reiterated his country's determination to boost cooperation in various fields such as economy and trade as well as active participation in Iraq's reconstruction.