  437146 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Purging Southeastern Hama of Terrorists Rasa - The Syrian army continued its advances in Southeastern Hama and took full control of several more regions in the area. RNA - The Damascus government troops' advances came after a recent peace agreement reached between the army and the militant groups. The army entered the villages of Qabiheh, al-Mashakh, Zour al-Jamqaliyeh and Zour Abu Dardah and their nearby regions in Southeastern Hama. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Hama The Syrian Army troops seized full control of four large regions in Southeastern Hama, and came close to full control over the regions after a recent peace agreement that envisaged militants' retreat. The army entered the villages of Qabiheh, al-Mashakh, Zour al-Jamqaliyeh and Zour Abu Dardah and their nearby regions in Southeastern Hama after the terrorists were forced to leave the region under a peace agreement with Damascus. Army officers say they will soon take control over the entire militant-held regions in Southeastern Hama as the peace agreement struck by the Syrian army and Russian military with the population of the region envisages expulsion of terrorists from Southeastern Hama. Damascus The Syrian Army troops continued to advance against Jeish al-Islam in Eastern Ghouta, and deployed at the gates of the key town of Douma. The army men, backed up by the artillery and missile units' heavy fire and air raids, stormed the positions of Jeish al-Islam in Douma and managed to push the militants back from the farms around the town. The army soldiers further imposed control over Farabi School at the gate of Douma. In the meantime, local sources said that a main command center of Jeish al-Islam in the Central part of Douma was destroyed in the army's air strikes, adding that several depots of arms and ammunition were detonated in the attack. Local sources reported that Jeish al-Islam's front has completely collapsed after its command center was destroyed. Earlier reports said that the army's elite forces, backed up by the artillery and missile units' fire, stormed Jeish al-Islam's positions West of Douma and seized the Southwestern farms between Mesraba and Douma towns. In the meantime, the army aircraft pounded the positions and movements of Jeish al-Islam in Douma, killing and wounding several terrorists and destroying their positions. The army started military operation after Jeish al-Islam violated the ceasefire agreement and shelled residential areas in Damascus suburb, killing or wounding almost 34 civilians. Idlib A notorious field commander of Jeish al-Izzah was killed after a bomb planted in his car went off in Southern Idlib on Saturday. Nasr Azkor nom de guerre Abu Marwan, a notorious commander of Jeish al-Izzah, was killed in a booby-trap blast on the road to the town of Khan Sheikhoun in Southern Idlib. Abdul Rahman al-Dayeri, an aid to Azkor, was also killed in the blast. A large number of members and commanders of terrorist groups have been assassinated in Idlib province as tension is on rise among terrorist groups in Northwestern Syria. Aleppo A main position of the Turkish Army and Ankara-backed militants in the Central part of the occupied town of Afrin came under the Kurdish militias' attack, a media outlet reported on Saturday. The Kurdish-language Hawar news reported that the Kurdish fighters destroyed a key position of the Turkish troops and Ankara-backed militants near al-Vilat street in Afrin's center, killing four militants and wounding two more. The Turkish military said in a statement last week that a total number of 3,820 Kurdish militants have been killed of held captive since the start of Operation Olive Branch in Syria's Afrin region. The General Staff of the Turkish Armed Forces said 52 Turkish soldiers were killed while 229 others wounded since the beginning of the Afrin operation. Turkey launched Operation Olive Branch on Jan. 20 to clear the Kurdish militants from Afrin in Northwestern Syria. Deir Ezzur The US Army forwarded more troops and military equipment to the oil and gas fields in Eastern Deir Ezzur on Saturday despite President Donald Trump's claims about troops pullout from Syria. The US has forwarded more military troops and equipment to the two oilfields of Koniko and al-Omar in Eastern Deir Ezzur and also to al-Sowar settlement in Northern Deir Ezzur, sources from among the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) disclosed on Saturday. The newly-sent convoy of US forces included several vehicles, a number of soldiers and several mine clearance vehicles. Local sources reported that the US-backed Kurdish fighters plan to take control over the entire oil and gas fields with the US' military and logistic back-up. The Kurds are in control of al-Omar oilfield, al-Tunk and al-Jafrah energy fields and Koniko gas company in Eastern Deir Ezzur. A senior representative of the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) said last month that the US Army started establishing another large military base in the Eastern part of Deir Ezzur province to further gain control over Syria's energy-rich regions. Mehdi Kobani, the SDF’s press secretary in Deir Ezzur, said that the new US military base is being built in the vicinity of al-Omar oilfield – the largest oil reservoir in Syria. “The US is building a large military base in the oil-rich al-Omar region of Deir Ezzur province. Due to security concerns we cannot provide information about the acreage of this new installation. There is currently construction machinery working in the vicinity of the base, and security is being provided by SDF forces,” he said. Hasaka A sum of 1,500 fugitive soldiers received government amnesty and joined the Syrian Army in the Northeastern province of Hasaka on Saturday. According to Fars News Agancy, the Syrian Army granted amnesty to a sum of 1,500 fugitive soldiers in the town of Qamishli and in Hasaka city. The troops came back into service after they went under a fresh round of military training. The soldiers are to be later deployed to the army bases and positions in Hasaka province to boost the army's combat power. A major part of Hasaka province has been captured by the US-backed militants.