Time : Monday, April 9, 2018 News ID: 437149 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Wards Off Terrorists' Attack in Hama Province Rasa - The terrorists' heavy offensive on the government forces' military positions in Southwestern Hama was fended off by the Syrian army units. RNA - The army soldiers engaged in heavy fighting with Islamic Front terrorists in Satahiyat region in Southwestern Hama and managed to repel their attack on Sunday. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Hama The Syrian Army troops repelled a heavy offensive of the terrorists in Southwestern Hama after fierce clashes that inflicted major losses on the militants on Sunday. The army soldiers engaged in heavy fighting with Islamic Front terrorists in Satahiyat region in Southwestern Hama and managed to ward off their attack. Also, the army's artillery units provided back-up fire for the ground forces in Satahiyat. The terrorists suffered heavy casualties and their military hardware sustained major damage in the failed attack. Damascus The Syrian Army troops continued to storm positions of Jeish al-Islam in Eastern Damascus and managed to seize control over a key region, cutting an important supplying line to the militant-held town of Douma on Sunday. The army soldiers managed to impose control over al-Reihan settlement near the town of Douma before they agree with Jeish al-Islam's demand for a halt in the army's operation and to resume fresh talks. Jeish al-Islam lost a number of fighters in the attack and the remaining pockets of them retreated towards Douma. The army soldiers further managed to take control of a main road connecting Ibn Sina Hospital and the town of Douma. The road was one of the main supplying lines of terrorists in the region. Homs The Syrian Army carried out a mop-up operation in Southeastern Homs and managed to seize control over more lands near the US-held al-Tanf region in Homs Badiyeh (desert), an Arab media outlet reported on Sunday. Syria's al-Watan daily quoted the field sources as reporting that the army units managed to advance in the depth of Eastern Homs Badiyeh towards al-Tanf region that is home to a US-run airbase, adding that the army men imposed control over more points near Mount al-Qorab 50 km Northwest of al-Tanf region. The army had previously seized Mount al-Qorab in an operation. The daily further reported that the army exchanged fire with the ISIL terrorists near al-Mo'ayzileh region in Eastern Badiyeh. The army units further clashed with ISIL in the Eastern part of al-Alyaniyeh region in Eastern Homs. Also, the Syrian Air Force pounded terrorists' positions in Eastern Homs, inflicting major losses on the militants. Hasaka People in Hasaka in Northeastern Syria have started forming armed groups to confront the US and Turkish soldiers deployed in the Kurdish city, a media outlet reported on Sunday. According to Fars News Agancy, the Syria's al-Watan daily reported that a Popular Resistance Group has been formed in Hasaka to embark on military action against the US and Turkish troops deployed in the war-hit country. It further reported that the newly-formed group had stated in its statement that "the resistance forces will attack bases and movements of the US and Turkish troops that intend to occupy and disintegrate Syria". In a relevant development, people in Raqqa in Northeastern Syria poured recently into the streets and protested against the US forces and their allied militants.