- Controlling Project Costs Project Integration Management Updated to align with the 6th Edition of the PMBOK® Guide, this course introduces topics like developing project charters and plans, managing project work and knowledge, monitoring and controlling project work, and closing out projects.Updated to align with the 6th Edition of the PMBOK® Guide, this course, Project Integration Management, is the third course in Pluralsight’s series preparing you for the newest version of the PMP® exam. This course explores many of the foundational processes of project management, found in the Project Integration Management knowledge area. First, you'll learn what makes a project charter so important and how one is composed. Then, you'll discover what should be included in a project management plan and how one is built over the entire course of your project. Finally, you'll see how project work should be monitored and controlled, and find out how project changes should be effectively managed to gain a better understanding of how project work is officially brought to a close. By the end of this course, you'll be better prepared to bring together all of the disparate components of project planning into a cohesive strategy for success. Table of Contents: - Introduction to Project Integration Management- Developing the Project Charter- Developing the Project Management Plan- Directing and Managing Project Work- Managing Project Knowledge- Monitoring and Controlling Project Work- Performing Integrated Change Control- Closing out Projects & Project Phases Project Communications Management Updated to align with the PMBOK® Guide 6th Edition, this course discusses the importance of communication management. Topics include principles of effective communication, planning communications, and ensuring communications advance project goals.Updated to align with the 6th Edition of the PMBOK® Guide, this course, Project Communications Management, is the tenth course in Pluralsight’s series preparing you for the newest version of the PMP® exam. In this course, you'll explore many of the processes found in the Project Communications Management knowledge area. First, you'll look at how to communicate effectively and shape communications efforts to fit project needs. Next, you'll explore effectively planning project communications and managing communication efforts. Finally, you'll learn monitoring communications to ensure effectiveness for both the project and stakeholders. By the end of this course, you'll understand how communications develop and scale in organizations, how to plan for communications, and how to communicate in ways that advance the project's interests most effectively. Table of Contents: - Communicating in the Project Environment- Planning Communications Management- Monitoring Project Communications Project Quality Management Updated to align with the 6th Edition of the PMBOK® Guide, this course, Project Quality Management is the eighth course in Pluralsight’s series preparing you for the newest version of the PMP® exam. This course explores many of the processes found in the Project Quality Management knowledge area. First, you'll learn about the importance of quality management and how to effectively plan for quality management. Next, you'll learn how to undertake quality management responsibilities. Finally, you'll learn how to use quality control activities to verify project objectives have been met. By the end of this course, you'll better understand the role of quality management in the project environment, and be better equipped to institute and implement quality management principles that can ensure your project satisfies its objectives. Table of Contents: - The Importance of Quality Management- Planning Quality Management