Time : Tuesday, April 10, 2018 News ID: 437157 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Seizes Vast Network of Terrorists' Tunnels in Damascus Countryside Rasa - Syrian government troops came across a vast network of tunnels and trenches dug by Jeish al-Islam terrorists in farms near the town of Douma in Eastern Ghouta, Damascus countryside on Monday. RNA - The army men carried out cleaning-up operation in farms near Douma and discovered a long and vast network of tunnels and trenches connecting Mesraba and al-Shifouniyeh to Douma. The army has been capable of prevailing over the first and second defense lines of Jeish al-Islam terrorists, and eventually managed to impose control over their third line of defense in the last two days. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Damascus The Syrian Army troops found a vast network of tunnels and trenches dug by Jeish al-Islam terrorists in farms near the town of Douma on Monday. The army men carried out a mop-up operation in farms near Douma and discovered a long and vast network of tunnels and trenches connecting Mesraba and al-Shifouniyeh to Douma. In the meantime, the army men, deployed in East of Douma, seized a main tunnel of the terrorists four or five kilometers in length and with several branches, linking terrorists' defense lines to their command posts. The army has been capable of prevailing over the first and second defense lines of Jeish al-Islam terrorists, and eventually managed to impose control over their third line of defense in the last two days. Earlier reports said that the first group of civilians who had been kidnapped by Jeish al-Islam in Douma left the town for Damascus via al-Wafedeen safe corridor on Sunday afternoon. The freed civilians were mainly children and women. Most of the released civilians were kidnapped and transferred to Douma by the terrorists in 2013 when they occupied the town of Adra al-Omaliyah. A large number of civilians were massacred by terrorists in Adra al-Omaliyah at the time. Syrian Reconciliation Minister Ali Heidar had announced that over 5,000 people were in Jeish al-Islam's jails. Also, seven buses transferred a number of Jeish al-Islam militants and their family members from Douma to the town on Jarabulus in Northeastern Aleppo. The Russian Defense Ministry said that 8,000 Jeish al-Islam militants and 40,000 of their family members are to leave Douma for other militant-held regions based on the newly-concluded agreement. Hama The Syrian Army troops launched fresh artillery and missile attacks on the positions of Al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) in Northern and Western Hama, killing tens of terrorists on Monday. The artillery and missile units opened heavy fire at the positions and movements of Al-Nusra and other terrorist groups in al-Latamina, Kafr Zita and Morek in Northern Hama, destroying several military vehicles and killing or wounding a number of terrorists. Also, the army's missile units pounded terrorists' positions in the village of al-Zakah in Northern Hama, killing or wounding a number of terrorists and destroying their equipment. In the meantime, other artillery and missile units targeted terrorists' strongholds in the village of al-Howayez in Jourin heights in Western al-Ghaab plain, killing several terrorists. Homs A number of Syrian Army soldiers were killed or wounded in a heavy missile attack on T4 airbase in Northern Homs, the country's state media reported on Monday. SANA reported that the Syrian air defense units tracked and targeted eight of the fired missiles before reaching T4 airbase in Northern Homs, adding that a number of the army men were killed and wounded in the attack. Other sources said that the US Air Force possibly targeted the T4 airbase by Tomahawk missiles, but Pentagon has rejected any attack by its forces on Syrian's targets, including T4 military base. Aleppo Syria's Tahrir Front and Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) resumed clashes in Western Aleppo on Monday putting an end to a ceasefire agreement struck earlier by two sides. Syria's Tahrir Front and Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at exchanged fire in the village of Tal Adah and Mount Sheikh Barakat in Western Aleppo. Both sides suffered a number of casualties and accused each other of violating the ceasefire. The warring sides had agreed on a seven-day-long ceasefire in Northern Syria a couple of days ago. Field sources reported earlier that Syria's Tahrir Front launched heavy attacks on Tahrir al-Sham positions in the town of Kafr Naha in Western Aleppo, leading to heavy infighting between them. According to Fars News Agency, they added that at least 2 armored vehicles of Syria's Tahrir Front were destroyed and a number of militants of both sides were killed. Meantime, fierce infighting was reported between the two terrorist groups near the town of Dar al-Izza in Western Aleppo, inflicting casualties on both. Tahrir al-Sham announced that it would continue the fight until Syria's Tahrir Front retreats from the regions earlier occupied by the former, as efforts were underway by influential militant figures to stop clashes between the two sides.