دسته: نرم افزار » گرافیکی » طراحی سه بعدی Corona Renderer یک ابزار رندرینگ برای Autodesk 3ds Max می باشد که میتوان گفت امروزه جزء موفق ترین و بهترین موتور های رندر موجود در جهان قرار گرفته است و تمرکز اصلی آن بر سرعت عملیات رندرینگ می باشد. همچنین ویرایشگر تصویر Corona ا مک ان کار کردن با تصاویر در خارج از برنامه های 3D را فراهم میکند. با توجه به اینکه Corona از قدرت CPU برای پردازش استفاده میکند، تنظیم یک صحنه آنقدر ساده است که هر کسی میتواند بدون نیاز به دانش بسیار زیاد از آن استفاده کند. در قبال آن، کیفیتی که بدست خواهید آورد نیز خیره کننده خواهد بود. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار Corona Renderer: - تولید رندر های واقعی با کیفیت بالا- پیکربندی آسان و عملکرد سریع برای رسیدن به محصول نهایی- ادغام با نرم افزار 3D Max- مبتنی بر CPU و مستقل از محدودیت های GPU- حذف نویز و کاهش تعداد Pass های مورد نیاز برای دریافت یک تصویر بدون نویز- و ... 
About Corona Renderer 1.6 . The latest update to the Corona Renderer once again brings many new features to this CPU-based un(biased) photorealistic renderer. The focus is on speed in rendering & workflow, with overhauled Distributed Rendering, improvements to IR, the Corona Image Editor for working with your images outside of any 3D application, bake LightMix settings into the scene, 3ds Max 2018 support, and more. 
features in Corona Renderer: - Distributed Rendering OverhaulDistributed Rendering overhaul – Makes it easier than ever to leverage the power of all available machines. Improvements include 3ds Max being pre-started on all slave machines to reduce wait times; assets that are missing on the slave machines are transferred automatically only to those machines that need them; Corona DR now works with adaptivity, and rendering to a noise level limit; and more detailed and accurate information is displayed on master and slave machines, e.g. showing memory usage.- Interactive LightMixThe unique Interactive LightMix feature now allows changes made in the VFB to be baked into the scene, making LightMix an ideal way to set up lighting rather than edit individual lights. The automatic LightMix setup has been improved with the option to setup via instanced, grouped or individual lights, with the memory requirements shown for each different setup.- Corona Image EditorThe new standalone Corona Image Editor (CIE) allows all denoising, LightMix and post-processing functionality to be used on Corona EXR files, giving access to all the Corona VFB features outside of any 3D software and without the need to re-render. Standard EXR files can also be loaded, and Corona post-processing effects such as tone mapping, bloom and glare, etc. can be applied. Post-processing and LightMix configurations can easily be exchanged between the CIE and the Corona VFB.- And More…Post-processing options have been extended, with custom tone curves, sharpen/blur capability, and improved vignetting.New improved shading means that faceted terminator shadows on low-poly objects and materials with bump maps are no longer an issue.Other improvements include subsampling in Interactive Rendering, allowing much faster updates; new options for Corona Scatter to place objects along splines or in regular patterns; Triplanar mapping; non-360 stereo rendering; support for 3ds Max native 2D Pan Zoom and Lens Distortion; improved Corona RoundEdges map rendering; fuzzy render regions; and more. More info (open/close)