دسته: نرم افزار » اینترنت » اف تی پی با نرم افزار Maxprog FTP Disk می توانید هر نوع فایلی را با نهایت سرعت به سرور خود انتقال دهید. این نرم افزار دارای قابلیت های فراوانی است و تمام نیازهای مربوط به آپلود و مدیریت فایل را بر روی سرورهای FTP برطرف می سازد. از قابلیت های این نرم افزار می توان به ا مک ان مشاهده پیش نمایش تصاویر و فایل های متنی، کشیدن و رها کردن فایل ها به درون برنامه، ایجاد فایل و پوشه، دانلود و آپلود فایل ها با نهایت سرعت، تعیین میزان دسترسی فایل ها، محیط کاربری ساده، انتقال فایل ها و پوشه ها به آسانی و بسیاری دیگر اشاره نمود. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار Maxprog FTP Disk: - نمایش گزارش اتصال، دستورات در حال اجرا و پاسخگویی سرور- ا مک ان کپی کردن و انتقال فایل ها و پوشه ها به محل های دیگر- امکان تعیین دسترسی فایل ها به صورت پیشرفته- بررسی تمام خطاها و اشکالات در سرور FTP- پشتیبانی از پروتکل های FTP و FTPS- و ... 
In order to maintain your Web site you surely need some kind of FTP software however not all the FTP tools available today seem to be designed with frequent uploading in mind. Indeed, they are not always as handy as they could or should be. Actually, they all seem to copy each others. Updating files on your server can be a repetitive and boring process, and in many cases it's more trouble than it's worth. It doesn't have to be that way, however, as FTP Disk makes this whole process much more intuitive.With FTP Disk just drag and drop your files directly on a server in the list to get them uploaded to the selected path. You can create as many servers as you need with different paths and initiate several uploads at the same time. Of course you can also log into servers as usual, navigate thru directories, create files and folders, download and upload files, modify text files with the built-in editor, preview pictures and change permissions. FTP Disk not only offers a very handy and easy-to-use interface for managing servers, indeed it is also very easy to navigate thru directories. Thanks to the directory bar, a visual and interactive control that displays your current location, you can move to other directories with a single click of your mouse. You can create favorite locations and jump to them at any time. Those favorites are available from the server panel so you can go directly to a directory when connecting to a server or upload files to it! FTP Disk is also available in German, French, Spanish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish, Russian, Japanese, Chinese and Korean. 
Here are some key features of "Maxprog FTP Disk": - All-in-one interface with simultaneous views of remote and local files for easy transfers.- Visual and interactive directory bar for easy navigation thru directories.- High-speed multiple downloading and uploading including directly to disconnected servers.- Support for the FTP and FTPS protocols.- Built-in text editor to edit remote text files and remote pictures viewer.- Support for duplicating, copying and moving files and folders.- Advanced file permission and ownership editor.- Complete server manager with support for unlimited favorite paths.- Complete FTP error checking and handling.- Detailed connection log of commands sent and responses received from the server. More info (open/close) 
OS: Windows 7, 8/8.1, 10 مشخصات 
قیمت: 19.90 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 23.2 مگابایت