Iran, Uruguay geographical distance no obstacle to bilateral ties News ID: 4269335 - Economy TEHRAN, Apr. 11 (MNA) – Iran’s foreign minister said Wed. that Iran and Uruguay geographical distance cannot put obstacles in the way of expansion of bilateral relations between the two countries. 
Speaking in Iran-Uruguay joint economic meeting in the Uruguayan capital city of Montevideo on Wednesday, Mohammad Javad Zarif praised the long-standing bilateral relations between the two countries and nations, saying that the relations began more than 100 years ago. 
Zarif expressed his happiness over attending the meeting, saying “I am very glad to be accompanied by an Iranian delegation from both public and private sectors in the fields of banking, investment, car manufacturing, pharmaceuticals and healthcare, electrical and water industries, agriculture and food industries, higher education, urban transportation, and oil and petrochemicals,” adding that he is also accompanied by large Iranian knowledge-based companies at the joint meeting with Uruguayan trade, economic and industrial companies.” 
The Iranian foreign minister said that the presence of the that large number of companies in the event from both countries shows willingness of the two sides to enhance bilateral trade and economic ties. 
Zarif went on to emphasize "the geographical distance has never prevented the expansion of bilateral relations, and in the political and economic terms, Uruguay and Iran have always been reliable and good partners for each other in the two regions of Asia and Latin America." 
The Iranian foreign minister said that Iranian citizens know Uruguay with its rice as the most important Uruguayan product in Iran's market, adding Uruguay was a customer for Iranian oil, especially in the 1990s. 
Zarif called for expanding economic relations between the two countries saying "today, we have a duty to develop and diversify trade and economic relations between the two countries." 
Foreign Minister of the Islamic Republic of Iran and his accompanying delegation arrived early Wednesday in Uruguay as part of his four-nation tour. 
KI/IRN82884006