FIFF36 announces jury panels for all sections News ID: 4268867 - TEHRAN, Apr. 11 (MNA) – The juries for the Cinema Salvation, Eastern Vista, Interfaith, and NETPAC of the 36th edition of Fajr International Film Festival have been revealed. 
Cinema Salvation – International Competition Jury: 
Joanna Kos-Krauze , one of the most important directors in contemporary Polish cinema. 
Milcho Manchevski , a Macedonian film director. Manchevski’s acclaimed Before the Rain (1994) is considered “one of the greatest debut feature films in the history of cinema” (Annette Insdorf) and “one of the most important films of the decade” (Ann Kibbey). 
Dimitri Athanitis , is a film director born in Athens, where he studied cinema and architecture. His last film Invisible (2016) gained 14 Awards, screening at more than 40 festivals. 
Adoor Gopalakrishnan , one of the leading luminaries of the New Indian Cinema, Adoor Gopalakrishnan has written and directed twelve feature films. 
Giovanni Spagnoletti studied in Rome and at the Freie Universität in Berlin and received a degree in German studies at the Roman University La Sapienza with the maximum grade. 
Mahmoud Kalari , born on April 31, 1951, in Tehran, Iran. After completing photography in New York and Sigma Photo News Agency, he held his first photo exhibition titled Visit From People Around Us at Tehran University in 1976. 
Merila Zarei , Iranian actress and a graduate of Azad University of Tehran, she became interested in cinema through Ezatollah Entezami’ sacting courses. 
Eastern Vista – Panorama of Films from Asian and Islamic Countries – Jury: 
Salome Demuria (Georgia), Suhan Pansha (Malaysia), Ahmet Boyagioglu (Turkey), Ammar Jamal (Iraq), Farhad Aslani (Iran) 
Interfaith Competition Jury: 
Valérie De Marnhac (France), Thomas Kroll (Germany), Mohammad-Reza Zaeri (Iran) 
NETPAC Jury: 
Andreas Ungerbock (Austria), Raman Chawla (India), Habib Ahmadzadeh (Iran) 
For all Festival goers who are already planning their visit, check screening time and other information at www.fajriff.com . For more infomation on the jury panels check here . 
Presided over by Iranian film writer and director Reza Mirkarimi, the 36th edition of Fajr International Film Festival will be held in Tehran on April 19-27. 
MS