دسته: نرم افزار » ارتباطات » ایمیل نرم افزار Postbox این ا مک ان را برای شما فراهم می کند که چندین اکانت ایمیل خود را تنها به واسطه ی یک رابط کاربری به صورت هم زمان و به آسانی مدیریت کنید. در نتیجه شما می توانید با آسودگی خیال، هر تعداد ایمیلی که می خواهید ایجاد کنید. این نرم افزار یک شیوه جدید و قدرتمند برای جستجو، استفاده و مشاهده ی پیام های ایمیل و اکانت های شما، ارائه می دهد.آنچه که نرم افزار پست باکس را واقعاً کارا و مفید می کند روشی است که به شما اجازه می دهد که انواع منابع داخلی ایمیل هایتان که در ایمیل های قدیمی پنهان شده اند، مانند هر بیت از متن، هر تماس، آدرس و لینک، هر عکس ، سند و فایل پیوست را، یکجا داشته باشید.در استفاده از این نرم افزار، تنها کافی است بر روی سربرگ تصاویر کلیک کنید تا یک گالری تامنیل (بند انگشتی) از همه ی تصاویر موجود در تمامی پیام های موجود در اینباکس را برای شما به نمایش در آورد و یا بر روی سربرگ Attachments کلیک کنید تا نرم افزار تمامی اسناد، فایل ها و ... را برای شما جستجو کند. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار Postbox: - ایجاد یک مجموعه از قالب های از پیش تعیین شده برای ارسال پاسخ خودکار- ارسال پاسخ های از پیش تعیین شده؛ فوق العاده مفید برای پاسخ به سوالات رایج- رابط بصری و ساده- خواندن ایمیل ها و پیام ها در محیطی بسیار زیبا و کاربرپسند- ا مک ان تغییر چیدمان و نوع نمایش پیام ها- امکان ویرایش پیام های صندوق دریافت مانند یک ویرایشگر متن- امکان جستجو در فایل ها، تصاویر و متن- دارای گزینه های جستجوی پیشرفته- مدیریت هم زمان چندین حساب ایمیل- بهترین نرم افزار Gmail دسکتاپ - پشتیبانی از برچسب بومی جیمیل- نمایش اختصاصی برای برچسب های مهم- ارسال و بایگانی توابع- پشتیبانی از میانبرهای صفحه کلید جیمیل- تبدیل تاریخ های شناسایی به رویدادهای تقویم گوگل- اتصال به شبکه های اجتماعی اضافه کردن به تماس های شخصی- عکس پروفایل فیس بوک، LinkedIn، توییتر، Gravatar و کتاب آدرس- نمایش خودکار عنوان شغلی و نام شرکت از LinkedIn- دسترسی سریع و آسان به LinkedIn، فیس بوک و صفحات پروفایل توییتر- به روز رسانی مستقیم وضعیت در فیس بوک، توییتر و LinkedIn- دارای نوار علاقه مندی ها برای دسترسی سریع و آسان به حساب ها و پوشه های مورد علاقه خود- قاب مفید در هنگام مخفی کردن حساب ها و پوشه ها- اضافه کردن یک پوشه به نوار علاقه مندی ها با کشیدن و رها کردن- یکپارچه سازی با نرم افزار و خدماتی که شما استفاده می کنید- ارسال لینک های Dropbox به جای فایل ها- ایجاد یادآوری در iCal، Google Calendar، یا Lightning Calendar- پشتیبانی از جدیدترین نسخه Growl- امکان مقایسه و جستجوی سریع- مرور ایمیل ها به صورت جدول بندی شده مانند مرورگر وب- دسته بندی ایمیل ها و سازماندهی با کلمات کلیدی- امکان فشرده سازی عناوین ایمیل ها- امکان ایجاد دستورات صفحه کلید- امکان قرار دادن امضا- پشتیبانی از افزونه- و ... 
Postbox will enable you to easily manage multiple mail accounts from the same interface. Postbox helps you make the most of your email, offering powerful new ways to find, use, and view email messages and content, organize your work life, and get stuff done.Postbox works behind the scenes to catalog everything in your email. We mean everything: every bit of text, every contact, address and link. Every picture, document and attachment. It’s all in the catalog and it’s all searchable. 
Just click the Images tab to see a thumbnail gallery of every picture from every message, or the Attachments tab to browse through documents, files and more. And since Postbox does all of it’s cataloging on your own computer, the privacy and confidentiality of your email information is preserved. Here are some key features of "Postbox": Powerful Message Search: - Postbox makes it easy to search for almost anything across all of your email accounts. Use the Search Panel to quickly search by message criteria, or for the power user, use search operators such "from:Mary" or "subject:vacation" directly within the search box. Postbox even understands search terms such as such as "after last Monday" or "before June 2008." And if you want to find a specific word or a phrase, there’s a Text Preview mode that helps you zero in on exactly what you're looking for. Search Tabs: - Use Postbox’s Search Tabs to instantly find attachments, images, links, and contacts – without having to dig through messages to find what you need. The Action Bar at the bottom of each search tab let’s you do useful things from your searches, like create a new message from a document you’ve found. Compose Sidebar: - Get fast access to your email content when you need it most - writing messages. A handy Compose Sidebar let’s you find attachments, images, and links directly within a new message window, which makes it easy to do things like resend project documents or incriminating photos from the company party. No more saving to the desktop, moving windows around, or other tedious actions that take up valuable time.- Use the Compose Sidebar to find and share links to online resources in new email messages. Just select a content type, enter a search term, and then drop what you’ve found into your message. Share links, places, and images (and much more coming soon), without switching to a browser, cutting and pasting content, and the rest of that nonsense. Inspector Pane: - Postbox looks for interesting content within each message, then highlights what it finds in the Inspector Pane. It's like a discovery engine built right into email. And if you’re looking at an entire conversation, Postbox summarizes everything that that has been shared so far - all in one place. Contacts Panel: - The inline Contacts Panel provides fast access to address book data and a palette of useful searches and actions. Use the Contacts Panel to send an email, dial a phone number, initiate an IM chat, or lookup an address. You can even search for recent messages, attachments, images, or links from any contact, anytime. Simplified Folder Views: - Postbox lets you slice and dice your account and folder views in ways that reduce clutter and simplify your life. When you select an account, only the most relevant folders are displayed, which helps to minimize distractions from activity in other accounts. And since the location of your common folders is always preserved, it makes switching from one inbox to another a breeze. Tabbed Mail Browsing: - Like a Web browser, Postbox let’s you view your message content in tabs - enabling you to create an efficient workspace for everything you’re working on. Open almost anything in a tab, including messages, folders, searches, or content such as attachments and images. You can quickly switch between tabs, or even reorder tabs to customize your view. Conversation Views: - Postbox enables you to view and process messages by conversation. Simply select a summary row in your message list to see a roll-up of all messages within a conversation. Focus by Topics: - Use Postbox to organize your messages by Topics. This allows you to focus your attention on one thing at a time, while minimizing interruptions from new messages outside of your current topic. A topic can be anything - a project, important client, an event, or even priority.- To view messages by Topic, just select from your favorites in the Folder Pane. It’s like creating a mini-Inbox for just the messages you want to work on. Combine Topics with Search Tabs to find attachments, images, links, or a list of contacts that relate to the Topic in view. Quick Tagging: - Assigning a Topic is easy. Type in any word or select from a list of your favorites. Unlike folders (that force you to make decisions on where to file), you can assign as many topics to a messages as you like. And here’s the best part - when you assign a topic to a message, it gets applied to all other messages in the conversation, and all future message replies too. Archive: - Want to keep a message around but don’t want to bother with filing it? Just use Archive. One click and the message is moved out of your way and into a dedicated Archive folder. Don’t worry, you’ll still be able to find anything that you need by using Postbox’s powerful search features. Annotate: - Have you ever wanted to edit an email, or add a note, just as easily as using a word processor? With Postbox, you can work with messages like you’ve always wanted. Use the Annotate function to change the subject message, edit its content, or add notes. You can even create a copy of your changes if you want to keep the original message, and everything will be grouped and displayed together in one conversation. To-Dos: - Postbox provides a simple and lightweight way to use email messages to manage and track To-Dos. Messages marked “To-Do” are conveniently pinned to the top of your message list, so important work items do not get pushed out of view.- Easily create new To-Dos and add them directly to your Inbox – no more emailing yourself notes! Use Postbox’s Annotate feature to update the status of To-Dos, or focus your To-Do list by Topic. You can even set the status of a message to Pending, which helps you keep tabs on items that you've delegated. Web Connectors: - Postbox streamlines your workflow by connecting your email content to the online services you use most. Whenever you see an attachment, image, link, address, or even text anywhere in Postbox, an online connection is just a click away. Click on an address to open an online map, or a phone number to initiate a call on your internet phone application. To share content online, select some content and choose an online service. Web connections can be made from within a Search Tab, the Inspector Pane, or even within the message body itself. Integrated Web Search: - Initiate a Web search by simply grabbing some message text and dropping it into the integrated Web Search Bar, or by typing any search term you like. Suggested search terms appear as you type, which speeds up your searches. A variety of different search engines are provided, so you can do everything from looking up a contact on a social network to researching a product online. Anti-Phishing and Malware Services: - Postbox helps protect you from viruses, spyware, trojan horses and more by checking URLs that are sent to you against a database of suspected phishing or malware sites. The database is automatically updated every 30 minutes, and if a potentially malicious URL is identified, a warning message will be prominently displayed. Automatic Updates: - Your security is important to us, so the Postbox application will keep itself up-to-date with the latest security and performance enhancements. The update process is automated, so you don’t have to worry about a thing. Based on Mozilla Technology: - Postbox is based on Mozilla technology, and as part of our continuing commitment to keep you as secure as possible, we'll quickly incorporate Mozilla security updates as they become available. More info (open/close) 
- Windows 7, 8, and 10- Pentium 4 or newer processor that supports SSE2- 4 GB of RAM (8 GB recommended)- 100 MB hard drive space for application files (excluding local message data)- Postbox runs in 32-bit mode on 32-bit and 64-bit versions of Windows مشخصات 
قیمت: 29.95 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 66.4 مگابایت