Time : Wednesday, April 11, 2018 News ID: 437166 America’s Reckless Disregard for Truth in Syria Rasa - At a time when the Red Crescent says there is no evidence of chemical attack in Syria’s Douma, US President Donald Trump cannot just order attack on Syrian government forces as a response to the non-existent chemical weapons attack. RNA - The Syrian Red Crescent has just issued a statement dismissing the US allegations of a weekend chemical weapon attack in the city of Douma. The statement insists their medical personnel in the city have found no evidence any such attack took place. The Syrian Red Crescent also says their hospital in Douma received six patients complaining of respiratory problems, but that they didn’t seem to have any physical problems at all, nor was there any trace of any chemical agents they might have been exposed to. The Russian Defense Ministry has also reported that their own medics examined some patients in Douma, and had the same result, that none showed signs of chemical poisoning. With White Helmets claiming scores killed and over 500 wounded by exposure, it seems impossible to believe that if it was true no one can find any of these “real” patients to confirm an attack. Strange enough, this hasn’t stopped President Trump from even suggesting that the US might take measures against Russia over the attack, as other US administration officials try to blame the Russians for the attack. Trump told reporters this week that “Russia, Syria, and Iran may all pay a price,” and that “the US will ensure everybody will.” Lest we forget, in April 2017, similar baseless allegations of a chemical attack, with a similar lack of concrete evidence, was used as a pretext for a US tomahawk missile attack on Syria. US officials have indicated for weeks they were looking at carrying out something along those lines, but bigger, and this latest allegation seems tailor made for a public excuse. Russia has warned the US against such a hasty military action on Syria, saying there would be grave consequences. Trump’s comments, however, suggest that he may be advancing toward a military confrontation with Russia at any rate. This reckless disregard for the truth is not absurd: - Any fool can understand that the US doesn’t care about human rights in Syria. Continuing the seven-year-old war on Syria is never about freedom and democracy either. America’s war on ISIL is also artificial. Among other things, this lawlessness, this fraud is all about regime changing Syria on regional designs - as envisaged by Washington and Tel Aviv, and as funded by Saudi Arabia. - America’s favorite terrorist groups, the so-called ‘moderates’, still have a safe haven in Syria. A staggering portion of United States military assistance to these Qaeda-linked ‘moderates’ is still embezzled and diverted to the ISIL and Al-Qaeda militants on purpose. This waste, fraud, and abuse can be found nearly everywhere in Syria, even now that the ISIL are weaker than ever and have lost the ground to the allied forces of Iran, Syria, Russia and Hezbollah. - That says why ISIL has joined the ‘moderates’, Al-Qaeda and the US, and Israel in fighting the Syrian government. They know full well that they are not winning in Syria now, and they want to correct this as soon as possible. If the Trump White House insists they are gearing up to attack Syria in response to the alleged chemical attacks in Douma, that’s because they are desperate to reverse this losing trend. - The regime changers deceive themselves about the futile war to extract more Saudi spending on American arms, to maintain more public stature in protecting Israel by keeping Syria busy fighting their terror proxies, and to avoid the embarrassment of explaining to their Arab partners in crime that astronomical sums have been wasted and hundreds of thousands of Syrian people have been killed in vain. According to Fars News Agancy, to deter such self-deception, the Trump White House should acknowledge the grim truth about its defeat; end its desperate regime-change campaign and reckless disregard for the truth, and withdraw its occupying troops from the war-torn country. The Trump White House officials know perfectly well that they have lost all respect for themselves and for their allies. They can’t just bury the Syria truth in a dark cellar and move on.