Time : Wednesday, April 11, 2018 News ID: 437164 Ayatollah Seyfi-Mazandarani: Consumption of domestic goods gives power to the Resistance Economy Rasa – The teacher in the Islamic Seminary of Qom said that using domestically manufactured products will boost the economy and create jobs and added that the Supreme Leader’s emphasis on using Iranian goods will give power to the Resistance Economy. RNA – In an exclusive interview with Rasa News Agency, Ayatollah Ali-Akbar Seyfi-Mazandarani considered the consumption of Iranian products as the basis for the Resistance Economy and said, “Supporting domestically manufactured products and factories will increase employment in the country.” The teacher in the Islamic Seminary of Qom continued, “Any amount of foreign products which have a domestic equivalent and are available in the market at the same quantity as domestic products are useless, the labour of the workers who produce these products will be fruitless and the factories producing these products will be bankrupt.” He added, “Anyone who knows a little about economic issues knows that protecting Iranian products and preventing foreign products from entering the country will ensure the flourishing of domestic factories.” Ayatollah Seyfi-Mazandarani called the use of Iranian products by government departments as a priority over others and stated, “Observation of foreign administrative requirements in the offices adversely effects the people and makes them indifferent to the use of Iranian goods.” His Eminence described the role of the clerics and seminary teachers who have a platform in this important direction, stating, “Missionaries who engage in the propagation of Islam have a duty to encourage the use of Iranian products by making use of Quranic verses and narrations to explain that the economy is a way of securing Muslim dignity.” He described the recommendation of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution [Ayatollah Khamenei] to the people to use Iranian products as similar to his command regarding recent cultural issues and said, “The Supreme Leader’s recommendation to the people to use domestically manufactured products can be considered as an economic choice. Through this means, the people force the government to move in line with this policy and they will no longer follow all the policies of the government, some of which are wrong.” Ayatollah Seyfi-Mazandarani reported on the Supreme Leader’s activities in the context of the Resistance Economy, saying, “From the beginning, the Supreme Leader posed the issue of the Resistance Economy in six issues of the ‘Journal of Civil Liberties, Justice and Human Rights.” Referring to the role of the media, he said, “Radio, television and films can play a role by encouraging the implementation of the Resistance Economy. The history of building culture in the sanitation sector through the slogan of ‘Our City is Our Home’ demonstrates that the people can be effected through advertising and adapt to important and effective approaches.”