Time : Wednesday, April 11, 2018 News ID: 437171 Iran: Saudi Rulers, Israel Symbol of Aggression, Crime in Middle-East Rasa - Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Bahram Qassemi blasted Saudi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for his anti-Iran remarks during his Paris visit, stressing that the Saudi rulers have put themselves beside the criminal Israeli regime in the region. RNA - "The incumbent rulers of Saudi Arabia who have put their name and country in the list of aggressors and criminals in the region to stand beside aggressive and criminal dictators like Saddam should know that by raising baseless allegations and hallucinations about Iran, they cannot ignore this reality that the regional countries and nations and all those who monitor international and regional developments and are aware of them will not forget Saudi Arabia's role in the creation, promotion and arming the violence-seeking and terrorist extremists who have committed numerous crimes in certain regional, neighboring and world states in different eras and under different titles, including the al-Qaeda, the ISIL and similar groups," Qassemi said on Wednesday. He called on the Saudi rulers to take lesson from the fate of their past regional allies, including Saddam Hussein, who sought to buy security from the trans-regional states. Qassemi also expressed the hope that the French officials would remind their Saudi guests of the fate of the former aggressors and dictators in the region. In relevant remarks earlier this month, Qassemi blasted bin Salman for his anti-Iran allegations, and said that the Riyadh government has resorted to a tragic diplomacy. "The recent policies adopted by Saudi Arabia are sadly tragic," Qassemi said in reaction to Saudi Crown Prince Mohammad Bin Salman's allegations in an interview with the London-based Times newspaper. "The ambitions of Saudi Crown Prince has no limitation and is turning out to be a chronic disease," the Iranian foreign ministry spokesman added. According to Fars News Agancy, he reiterated that due to the war inside the House of Saud, bin Salman is making ridiculous and shameful remarks to gain the support of the US and Israel and is paying billions of dollars from people’s properties. "The neophyte prince has closed his eyes on the historic realities and the crimes of the child-killer and occupier Zionist regime for seven decades," Qassemi said, adding that bin Salman in a blatant treason against Palestinians’ aspirations has recognized the illegitimate regime of Israel. The Iranian foreign ministry spokesman said that the Saudi crown prince's remarks indicate the fact that he had not studied either history or geography and does not know even the aspiration of Saudi people and freedom seekers in the world. "Saudi Prince does not understand the oppression against Palestinians and does not differentiate friend and enemy," Qassemi said.