Time : Wednesday, April 11, 2018 News ID: 437177 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Terrorist Centers Receive Severe Blow under Army Fire in Hama Province Rasa - The Al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) terrorists received heavy blow in the Syrian army's artillery attack for the second consecutive day on Tuesday. RNA - The army's artillery and missile units opened heavy fire at Al-Nusra movements and positions in the villages of al-Janabareh, al-Latamina and al-Zakah in Northern Hama, killing or wounding a number of militants and destroying their positions and equipment. Tens of terrorists were killed in the Syrian army's artillery attack. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Hama The Syrian Army launched heavy artillery and missile attacks on the positions of Al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) in Hama province for the second day in a row on Tuesday, killing tens of terrorists. The army's artillery and missile units opened heavy fire at Al-Nusra movements and positions in the villages of al-Janabareh, al-Latamina and al-Zakah in Northern Hama, killing or wounding a number of militants and destroying their positions and equipment. The artillery and missile units further pounded the terrorists' strongholds in the small town of Hirbnafsa in Southern Hama, inflicting major losses on the militants. Elsewhere, other units of the army responded to the terrorists' missile attack from the villages of Eidoun and al-Qantara on the village of Tal Dareh. In the meantime, terrorists' movements in the villages of Taloul al-Hamr and al-Jamaliyeh in Southern Hama also came under the heavy artillery fire of the army. Damascus The Syrian Army troops are preparing for an imminent operation against terrorists in the Southern countryside of Damascus city, Secretary-General of Palestinian Resistance Groups Khalid Abdul Majid said on Tuesday, adding that the army has sent a large number of forces and equipment to the region. Abdul Majid said that fresh units of the army and their military hardware have arrived in Yarmouk Refugee Camp, Hajar al-Aswad and al-Qadam regions, adding that the army men seem to soon kick off a large-scale operation in Yarmouk and in the Southern countryside of Damascus. He further said that ISIL terrorists in Yarmouk are showing growing signs of anxiety amid spread of reports on the army's imminent operation, adding that ISIL has spread its positions in the three parts of Yarmouk, Hajar al-Aswad and al-Tazamon with Hajar al-Aswd as its command center. Also, local sources reported that almost 1,000 army men on hundreds of military vehicles have arrived in Southern Damascus in the last two days.