Time : Thursday, April 12, 2018 News ID: 437180 Syria in Past 24 Hours: Terrorists in Eastern Ghouta Hand over Modern Israeli, European Arms to Army Rasa - Jeish al-Islam militants delivered their advanced Israeli and European-made weapons to the Syrian Army within the framework of an evacuation agreement in the town of Douma, a media outlet reported on Wednesday. RNA - Jeish al-Islam militants delivered their advanced Israeli and European-made weapons to the Syrian Army within the framework of an evacuation agreement in the town of Douma, a media outlet reported on Wednesday. Damascus The Arabic-language website of Sputnik reported that a sum of 1,384 militants and their family members with a total number of 3,792 left Douma for the town of Jarabulus in Northeastern Aleppo on 85 buses. It went on to say that the evacuation process will continue for the next two days due to logistical reasons, adding that Jeish al-Islam has handed over its light and semi-heavy arms to the army. The Arabic Sputnik further said that Israeli sniper rifles and Belgian-made RPG rockets and PKC machineguns were among the arms. Also in the past 24 hours, a number of British military men were held captive by the Syrian army in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus, media reports disclosed, saying that they had infiltrated the region for the last month US plot to attack Damascus in collaboration with terrorists and NATO forces that failed. The Arabic-language al-Mayadeen news channel's correspondent in Moscow reported that a number of British forces have been captured during the military operations in Eastern Ghouta. Earlier reports had disclosed last month that foreign military forces were deployed in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus to launch a ground assault against Damascus in cooperation with the US. The US and Israel planned to launch attacks on Damascus from several fronts in collaboration with the NATO and Jordan, but the plot failed after the Syrian army scored rapid, major victories in Eastern Ghouta. Also on Wednesday, the Syrian Army troops continued their mop-up operations in Zmelka region in Eastern Ghouta, discovering a large warehouse used by Faylaq al-Rahman terrorists for hoarding medicines and medical equipment. The army men found in basements of residential units in Zmelka in Eastern Ghouta a large warehouse of hoarded medicines, advanced medical equipment, a variety of home-made and foreign drugs and several field hospitals that Faylaq al-Rahman had hidden to prevent public access. The army men further found a very large advanced field hospital in Zmelka that was connected to a 200-meter-long tunnel. A Syrian army field commander said that the terrorists had set fire at the hospital and its military equipment before leaving the region. The terrorist groups denied rendering medical service and medicines to civilians when Eastern Ghouta was under their control. Also in the past 24 hours, almost 12,000 Jeish al-Islam militants and their family members have thus far left the town of Douma in Eastern Ghouta for other militant-held regions in Northern Syria within the framework of an evacuation agreement with the Syrian Army, local sources reported. The sources said that a sum of 3,916 militants and their family members left Douma for Northern Aleppo on 96 buses via al-Wafedeen safe corridor. Also, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that 11,983 militants and their family members have thus far been evacuated from Douma. A sum of 165,123 people has been evacuated from Eastern Ghouta via safe corridors with the assistance of the Russian Reconciliation Center for Syria. Also in the past 24 hours, the Syrian and Russian fighter jets were flying frequently over Syria's coastal waters amid speculations about an imminent attack on Damascus forces by the US and its western allies. The Russian and Syrian fighter jets have been carrying out frequent flights over Syrian coastal waters in the Western Mediterranean Sea after the US threatened to conduct an imminent raid on the Syrian territory. Field sources in Lattakia province reported that the Syrian Air Force has sent a number of its fighter jets to the Russia-run Humeimim airbase in Southern Lattakia, adding that the Russian and Syrian forces are to share the Humeimim base in Jebleh. The US threatened to attack Syria after a false-flag chemical attack by terrorist groups was orchestrated in the town of Douma to accuse Damascus of killing its civilians. Hasaka A number of the US-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) were killed after a bomb planted in their vehicle went off in Southern Hasaka on Wednesday. A number of SDF militants were killed and several more were wounded in a booby-trap blast in the town of al-Shadadi in Southern Hasaka. In the meantime, local sources reported residents' rage against the Kurdish fighters in the region specially after SDF's forced recruitment plan in the region. Also on Wednesday, the US troops conducted heliborne operations to rescue several entrapped non-Syrian ISIL commanders from Southern Hasaka province, local sources said. The sources said that the US forces carried out another heliborne operation by several helicopters in Tal al-Shayer region 20 km Southeast of the town of al-Shadadi in Southern Hasaka. The sources said that the heliborne operation was done in Sheikh Gas Pump Station in Tal al-Shayer, adding that the US forces evacuated three Iraqi commanders of the ISIL along with their family members from the region and transferred them to an unknown location. They added that the US forces orchestrated a fake clash before evacuation of the ISIL commanders that left a civilian dead and several more wounded. Tal al-Shayer region and a part of borderline between Syria and Iraq is still under ISIL's control. Aleppo The Turkish-backed militant groups on Wednesday seized weapons of the Saudi-backed militants of Jeish al-Islam that withdrew from the town of Douma in Eastern Ghouta as soon as they arrived in regions under the Ankara-backed militants' control. The Turkish army ordered its allied militants to seize the personal weapons of the Saudi-backed Jeish al-Islam terrorists that have recently left Douma and arrived in regions that are under the control of the Euphrates Shield forces in Northern Syria. Several convoys of Jeish al-Islam militants arrived in Northern Syria within the framework of an evacuation agreement with the Syrian Army. A wave of anger and disappointment has been reported among Jeish al-Islam militants after the Ankara-backed forces seized their weapons. Saudi Arabia and Turkey are two rivals in providing back up for terrorist groups in Syria. Deir Ezzur The Washington-backed Free Syrian Army (FSA) has called on the US army to provide support for its gunmen to enter Deir Ezzur battlefields to fight against the Syrian Army men and ISIL, militant-affiliated websites reported on Wednesday. The websites reported that the terrorists of Maqavir al-Thowrah, affiliated to the Free Syrian Army, have demanded the US army to support them to take part in battle against the Syrian pro-government forces in the Eastern province of Deir Ezzur. The US and its western allies have threatened to launch military operation against Damascus following a false-flag chemical attack in Douma by terrorist groups to accuse the Syrian government of killing its civilians. Also in the past 24 hours, the Syrian Army troops, backed up by the country's Air Force, launched fresh attacks on the remaining pockets of ISIL in a region between Western Deir Ezzur and Eastern Homs, inflicting major losses on the terrorists. The army men engaged in a tough battle with ISIL in Humeimeh region in Eastern Homs, killing and wounding a large number of the terrorists. Also, the army aircraft pounded ISIL's strongholds in Humeimeh region, al-Mo'ayzelah dam, T2 Gas Pumping Station and along a region expanded between borders of Deir Ezzur and Homs Eastern Badiyeh (desert), killing or wounding tens of terrorists and destroying their position and military equipment. Idlib, Hama The Syrian Armed Forces carried out heavy attacks on the strongholds of the Al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) in Southern Idlib and Northern Hama on Wednesday, inflicting major losses on the militants. According to Fars Nesw Agancy, the army's artillery and missile units pounded terrorists' strongholds in al-Latamina and its nearby regions and in Kafr Zita in Northern Hama. The army aircraft also bombed heavily the Al-Nusra positions in al-Naqir region and near the small town of al-Habit and in the village of Abedin in Southern Idlib. Tens of terrorists were killed or wounded and several of their positions and command posts were destroyed in the attacks. In the meantime, the army men engaged in fierce clashes with Al-Nusra in al-Satahiyat West of the town of al-Salamiyah in Hama, killing a number of militants.