Douma, false flag may ignite WW III News ID: 4269761 - Opinion > Op-Ed TEHRAN, Apr. 12 (MNA) –Trump’s war cabinet policy toward developments in Douma, Syria may ignite an uncontrollable firestorm - risking WW III. I followed events in Serbia. Poland was ground zero for WW II. Will East/West conflict in Syria escalate to war to end all others, risking catastrophic nuclear war ? The stakes are potentially monumental. Humanity’s fate could ride on events as they unfold . Washington wants another imperial trophy ahead of a similar campaign against Iran. Its goal is hegemonic regional control partnered with Israel and its key NATO allies . Its larger objective is unchallenged global dominance, eliminating all sovereign independent governments, replacing them with subservient pro-Western regimes - Russia and China its main targets . Moscow’s intervention in Syria changed the dynamic on the ground, foiling Washington’s objective - what it aims to regain . Tactics include rejecting peace, waging endless war, controlling as much Syrian territory as possible, especially along the Turkish, Iraqi and Jordanian borders, continued use of terrorist foot soldiers aided by terror-bombing, and false flags like Douma last Saturday to demonize Damascus and Moscow . Security Council debates are theater, accomplishing nothing, rule of law principles irrelevant . Washington and its rogue allies operate by their own rules, battleground Syria an example of their ruthlessness . Moscow’s good faith Security Council efforts are foiled by US obstructionism, wanting nothing interfering with its imperial agenda . Dangerously escalating events in Syria risk a potentially defining moment of our time. World peace could be hinging on events as they unfold . Washington’s Harry S. Truman aircraft carrier, its battle group warships, and guided missile USS Donald Cook destroyer are heading toward Mediterranean Sea positioning off Syria’s coast near Russia’s Tartus naval facility . According to lower house State Duma Defense Committee chairman Vladimir Shamanov, Moscow’s wasn’t informed about the deployment, saying : A group of ships of the US Navy (other than the Harry S. Truman battle group) has appeared at a distance of 150 miles from the Tartus region .” “It is common in international practice potential participants of events in the area should be notified accordingly in advance .” “We have not been notified, although we had legally ratified the agreement on two bases in Tartus and Khmeymim .” " Trump said that he would think about the missile attack on Syria despite any resolutions at the UN Security Council .” “All this smells of something are outside the framework of universally recognized international norms .” EU air traffic control issued a Rapid Alert Notification for the eastern Mediterranean, warning airlines of a possible attack on Syria “with air-to-ground and/or cruise missiles within the next 72 hours, and the possibility of intermittent disruption of radio navigation equipment”. Russia earlier warned of serious consequences if Washington attacks Syrian forces, especially if its personnel in the country are harmed . During Tuesday’s Security Council debate, Russian UN envoy Vasily Nebenzya stressed the warning, saying : “We have repeatedly warned the American side about highly negative consequences that may follow if they apply weapons against the legitimate Syrian government, and especially if the use of these weapons - God forbid, affects our military men, who legally stay in Syria .” Russian and Syrian forces are on high alert, an attack by Washington and its allies could come at any time . Moscow’s ambassador to Lebanon Alexander Zasypkin said “Russian forces will confront any US aggression on Syria, by intercepting the missiles and striking their (land and/or sea-based) launch pads .” Trump cancelled a Summit of the Americas trip to focus on Syria. A potentially important development could alter his plans . On Tuesday, UK Prime Minister Theresa May said Britain needs more evidence of the alleged Douma incident before committing to military action against Syria . She rejected acting before OPCW inspectors visit Douma and report on their findings. French President Macron signaled he’s ready to ally with a US attack on Syria if use of CWs in Douma is confirmed, adding only chemical facilities would be struck . None are involved in CW development and production. No evidence suggests otherwise. US-supported terrorists alone used CWs numerous times, in most cases falsely blamed on Damascus . A likely US attack on Syrian forces looms, with or without allies. Russia’s response will be a defining moment . Syria is a hugely dangerous tinderbox. Along with his hardened war cabinet, Trump’s rage for war making could ignite an uncontrollable firestorm - risking WW III . Related News