Time : Friday, April 13, 2018 News ID: 437186 Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani: Iran must give a decisive answer to the Zionist regime’s impudence Rasa – Referring to the recent Zionist attack and the martyrdom of several defenders of the holy shrines in Syria, said that the Zionist movement must not be left unanswered but rather the Islamic Republic of Iran must give them a strong response. RNA – Speaking during his class at Qom’s Grand Mosque, Grand Ayatollah Hoseyn Nouri-Hamadani spoke in regard to the April 9th Israeli missile attack on the T-4 air base in east of the city of Syrian city of Homs and the martyrdom of several "Defenders of the Holy Shrines" as a result of the attack and called for the end of the silence and for a decisive response to this usurping regime. The revered source of emulation added, “The Zionist regime is so insolent that it dares to fire a missile at a group of Iranians which led to their martyrdom and we cannot be silent about this issue.” Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani argued that the people launched a revolution to resist against the Zionists and arrogant powers and said, “We must stand up to the enemies and be perseverant as silence will make them more courageous and more daring to attack.” He added, “We must not be silent in regard to this issue and the Islamic Seminaries must not be indifferent. According to the narrations, just as the prophets resisted against the enemies, like them, the jurists must act in a jihadi manner and be active.” The teacher in the Islamic Seminary of Qom stated, “Once when we were in the presence of the late Imam Khomeyni, it was suggested that Jesus was very merciful and didn’t engage in jihad, and only gave advice. The Imam said that if that were the case, Jesus was a preacher and not a prophet because it couldn’t be that the prophets didn’t engage in jihad.” He said, “All of the prophets stood up against the enemies and the jurists and scholars must never be weak but they must continue their endurance against the unbelievers and the enemies. The method of the scholars way was to persist. Therefore, they cannot be silent and must think about how this insolency must be answered.” Ayatollah Nouri-Hamadani said that the Zionist movement must not be left unanswered but rather the Islamic Republic of Iran must give them a strong response.