Time : Friday, April 13, 2018 News ID: 437191 Qom Friday Prayer Leader: Muslims gave many martyrs to revive and strengthen the school of the Ahlul-Bayt Rasa – Ayatollah Sa’idi said, “Throughout history, Shi’ahs gave many martyrs to revive and strengthen the school of the Ahlul-Bayt. During the Islamic Revolution, the Holy Defense Era [Iran-Iraq Era] and in defence of the holy shrines, the honourable martyrs sacrificed their lives for Islam.” RNA – In his Friday prayer sermon delivered to a large and fervent crowd of believers in Qom’s Qods Prayer Hall, Ayatollah Sayyed Mohammad Sa’idi offered his condolences on the martyrdom of Imam Musa al-Kadhim and said, “This magnanimous imam was very patient and tolerant but he stood firmly against the agents of oppressors and the usurpers and he openly took a position.” The custodian of the Holy Shrine of Lady Fatimah al-Ma’sumah added, “Throughout history, Shi’ahs gave many martyrs to revive and strengthen the school of the Ahlul-Bayt. During the Islamic Revolution, the Holy Defense Era [Iran-Iraq Era] and in defence of the holy shrines, the honourable martyrs sacrificed their lives for Islam.” Speaking on Eid al-Mab’ath, the anniversary of the beginning of the mission of the Prophet Muhammad, he said, “On the eve of the Eid al-Mab’ath, the world is suffering from moral and religious decline, crisis and ignorance. Looting, oppression, corruption and injustice have spread everywhere but the Prophet was called to take away the chains and shackles of captivity from the rationality and lives of the people.” Ayatollah Sa’idi stated that at the beginning of every Iranian year, the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution [Ayatollah Khamenei] delivers a speech on important and strategic issues to the government and the people from the Holy Shrine of Imam al-Ridha and noted, “This year, Supreme Leader specifically focused on youth and their use in management and noted and supported the youth more than forty times in this speech.” The representative of the Supreme Leader in Qom referred to Ayatollah Khamenei’s emphasis on giving opportunities to the youth on the basis of religious doctrines and experiences and said, “The youth are the true wealth of the country. The discovery and employment of the youth will make the country progress but due to improper structures, opportunities for growth and development for them have been provided inadequately but we need to trust the youth, just like we did during the Sacred Defence.” He pointed out that the youth of that era defended Iran in a faithful and eternal manner during these unequal wars against the aggressors. The youth of the day crippled the United States, the Zionists, the reactionary regimes of the region and the terrorist groups and this indicates the strength and capacity of the youth. Ayatollah Sa’idi said that the enemies are trying to drag the youth into indiscriminate and addictive corruption so as not to be a source of influence and noted, “If the officials open the doors of work and efforts to the youth seriously, the enemies will certainly fail to deviate the youth.” Referring to the fluctuations of the foreign exchange market and its impact on Iran’s economy, His Eminence added, “These fluctuations led many people and leaders, including Grand Ayatollah Naser Makarem-Shirazi to protest. The fluctuation of the exchange rate at different intervals is logical but fluctuations every few hours aren’t logical and there is a hand in this work.” Referring to the Syrian army’s valuable victory over the occupying terrorists in Eastern Ghoutah, he said, “This was a very important victory where honourable people were martyred in order to prevent the victory of the enemies and the aggressive American government launched plots and conspiracies in various fields and the Zionist regime launched attacks.” Ayatollah Sa’idi said, “The Syrian Arab Army has never fallen into these deviant moves and didn’t forget its main goal. We offer our congratulations to the Syrian government and people on this victory. With the unification of the people of the Islamic world, the main cause of the seditious actions in the region, that is, the regime occupying Jerusalem al-Quds, will be eradicated.” Referring to the internal situation in the country, His Eminence continued, “Today, more than ever, we need empathy, solidarity and unity and the secret of victory at the beginning of the Revolution and the Sacred Defense and other conspiracies was unity. The axis of this unity is the personality of the Supreme Leader of the Islamic Revolution, Ayatollah Khamenei.” The Friday prayer leader of Qom said, “Today, by relying on the promises of God and favour of Imam al-Mahdi and the help of the people, the Supreme Leader stands against all the tyrants, arrogant powers and invaders of the world. Everyone who undermines the cohesion of the people revolving around the Leader through his statements, writings and work will meet the anger and hatred of God and the people. The people will stand firmly against the breakers of unity, those who seek to weaken the establishment and bankrupt the political system and who are in line with the enemies of the establishment.”