Time : Friday, April 13, 2018 News ID: 437199 US advancing colonial plots under war on terror cover: Houthi Rasa - Leader of Yemen's Houthi Ansarullah movement Abdul-Malik Badreddin al-Houthi says the so-called war on terrorism is the “most feeble and ridiculous” excuse that US officials have been using over the past few years to advance their colonial plots. RNA - Addressing his supporters via a televised speech from the Yemeni capital city of Sana’a on Friday, Houthi blamed Washington for the emergence of al-Qaeda and Daesh terror networks and spread of terrorism. “The American government created al-Qaeda in order to target the Muslim world. Daesh terrorist group’s tentacles spread once the US prepared the ground for such a growth. The terrorists wouldn’t have able to exert influence if American authorities had not thrown weight behind them,” the Ansarullah chief pointed out. He also criticized some Arab states over irrational decisions, stating that such foolish moves have been a great boon for the United States and the Israeli regime. “Enemies are seeking to sow the seeds of division and discord among Muslim nations in a bid to prevent them from taking a unified stand. The United States is cherishing hopes that the Muslim world would implode within itself and disintegrate,” Houthi commented. The leader of the Ansarullah movement went to say that his fellow fighters, in full coordination with Yemeni army forces, are adding more advanced and optimized ballistic missiles to the country’s inventory. He stressed that Yemeni troops and allied fighters from Popular Committees continue to produce a vast array of unmanned aerial vehicles for military and reconnaissance purposes. The Yemeni Ministry of Human Rights announced in a statement on March 25 that the Saudi-led war had left 600,000 civilians dead and injured since March 2015. According to Press TV, the United Nations says a record 22.2 million Yemenis are in need of food aid, including 8.4 million threatened by severe hunger. A high-ranking UN aid official recently warned against the “catastrophic” living conditions in Yemen, stating that there was a growing risk of famine and cholera there. “After three years of conflict, conditions in Yemen are catastrophic,” John Ging, UN director of aid operations, told the UN Security Council on February 27. He added, “People's lives have continued unraveling. Conflict has escalated since November driving an estimated 100,000 people from their homes.” Ging said cholera had infected 1.1 million people in Yemen since last April, and a new outbreak of diphtheria had occurred in the war-ravaged Arab country since 1982.