Time : Friday, April 13, 2018 News ID: 437192 Spokesman Condemns Anti-Iran Claims by Arab Quartet Committee Rasa - Foreign Ministry Spokesman Bahram Qassemi condemned a statement by Arab Quartet Committee against Iran, and called for fighting the common enemy of the Muslim World. RNA - Qassemi's remarks came in reaction to the Arab Quartet Committee's statement that accused Iran of interfering in domestic affairs of the Arab countries. "Having forgotten the common enemy of the Muslim world, the Arab countries are insisting on their wrong, attritional stance against Islamic Republic of Iran," Qassemi said. Arab Quartet Committee is comprised of the four Arab countries: Saudi Arabia, Egypt, Bahrain and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). "All accusations against Iran by the committee held on the sidelines of the preliminary meetings of Arab League summit are baseless and a result of delusion," he added. Qassemi expressed regret that some countries in the region, having forgotten the common enemy of the Muslim world, are insisting on their wrong, attritional stance against Islamic Republic of Iran. "All the points mentioned in the statement of the quartet committee are false, baseless and the continuation of a trend that, unfortunately, will deny the region stability and peace, instead of restoring them," he said. The Iranian foreign ministry spokesman, meantime, expressed the hope that the upcoming summit of Arab League will be able to identify the real stabilizing factors and the nature of the current crises in the region, unaffected by multiple standards. According to Fars News Agancy, he also said that the summit should take steps towards convergence among Arab and Muslim countries. Foreign ministers of Egypt, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Bahrain held a preparatory meeting in Dammam on Thursday on the sidelines of the 29th Arab Summit, which is scheduled to start on Sunday, expressing concern about what they called Iran’s interference in the internal affairs of Arab countries. They also claimed that Tehran is providing ballistic missiles to Yemen’s Ansarullah movement.