Time : Friday, April 13, 2018 News ID: 437188 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Discovers Terrorists' Giant Ammunition Factory in Eastern Damascus Rasa - Syria's government troops discovered one of the biggest factories of Faylaq al-Rahman terrorists used to produce ammunition during cleansing operations in Eastern Ghouta. RNA - The factory was found by the army in the town of Zamalka in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus on Thursday in which Faylaq al-Rahman militants manufactured different types of bombs and ammunition. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Damascus The Syrian army found one of the biggest factories of Faylaq al-Rahman terrorists used to produce ammunition during cleansing operations in Eastern Ghouta. The army forces discovered the factory in the town of Zamalka in Eastern Ghouta of Damascus on Thursday in which Faylaq al-Rahman militants manufactured different types of bombs and ammunition. Meantime, the Syrian army units found and seized a bomb-laden car in a region between the towns of Zmalka and Hazeh in Eastern Ghouta. Jeish al-Islam ringleader Ossam al-Bawizani, along with other senior commanders of the terrorist group, left the town of Douma in Eastern Ghouta after an agreement with the Syrian army. The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported on Thursday that most senior Jeish al-Islam commanders, including Bawizani and the group's Mufti, Abu Abdolrahman Ka'akeh, evacuated Douma on Wednesday. It added that terrorists have also surrendered all their heavy weapons, including armored vehicles, tanks and missile-launchers, to the Russian military police stationed in the region. Meantime, the Russian defense ministry reported that 1,521 terrorists and their family members left Douma on 40 buses through al-Wafideen corridor in the past 24 hours. 13,504 terrorists and their family members left Douma, and the number of militants and family members who have evacuated Eastern Ghouta of Damascus with the help of the Russian Reconciliation Center for Syria has reached 644,166. The entire Eastern Ghouta of Damascus is now under the control of the Syrian army after Jeish al-Islam terrorists left the town of Douma, the Russian Reconciliation Center for Syria announced. Hama The Syrian army pounded the positions of al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board) in Northern Hama, field sources said on Thursday, adding that the army forces also repelled the terrorists' attack in Southwestern Hama. The Syrian army units engaged in clashes with Jibhat al-Islamiyeh (Islamic Front) terrorists who had launched an offensive on their positions in al-Satahiyat region in Southwestern Hama, the sources said, stressing that the army concurrently attacked the militants' moves and bases in al-Satahiyat and al-Quneitra in Southwestern Hama with artillery fire. They added that a large number of terrorists were killed and wounded in the attack and the remaining militants were forced to withdraw. Meantime, in Northern Hama, other army troops clashed with al-Nusra terrorists near al-Masasenah region, inflicting casualties on them. Also, the army's artillery units targeted the terrorists' positions in al-Latamina, Murak and the town of al-Ziyarah in Western al-Qab region in Northern Hama, inflicting heavy damage on them. Aleppo The US and other western states have increased activities in Northern Syria to support the Kurdish forces in the town of Manbij as tensions between Washington and Ankara have intensified in the region, sources said, adding that the Kurds have received new weapons. The Arabic-language al-Mayadeen news channel quoted Kurdish sources as saying on Thursday that recently a large volume of weapons have been sent to Manbij in Northern Syria, adding that most of them are Saudi arms. According to Fars News Agancy, they also revealed that the US-led coalition has set up a coordination center with the Kurds to protect Manbij from the Turkish army attacks. Meantime, reports said that the US, French and British forces have conducted patrolling missions in Manbij. The American forces continue deployment and establish new positions in Manbij despite US President Donald Trump's earlier claims that he intends to end Washington's military presence in Syria. Tensions intensified between Turkey and the US after a new convoy of the US and French forces entered the town of Manbij to provide support for the Kurdish fighters in Northeastern Syria.