دسته: نرم افزار » گرافیکی » طراحی دو بعدی TwistedBrush Liquid Studio نرم افزار ی برگرفته شده از TwistedBrush Pro Studio می باشد که تمرکز اصلی آن بر روی ایجاد اشیاء منفرد در یک محیط کاربری ساده است تا بتوان آن ها را در پروژه های طراحی در نرم افزار TwistedBrush Pro Studio و یا سایر نرم افزارهای گرافیک ی استفاده نمود. این نرم افزار به کاربرانش ا مک انی را می دهد تا بتوانند شیء موردنظر خود را به صورت یک مدل کلی ایجاد نموده و به صورت مرحله به مرحله آن را شکل دهی کنند و در نهایت با براش های متنوعی که در اختیار دارند آن را رنگ آمیزی کنند.فرآیند طراحی با Liquid Studio بسیار آسان است، در اولین قدم کاربر بایستی یک شکل کلی از شیء مورد نظر خود را طراحی کند، در این مرحله لازم نیست خیلی بادقت شیء را رسم کند. در قدم بعدی باید از براش های شکل دهی نرم افزار (liquid shaping brushes) استفاده نموده و آن را روی شکل بکشد تا تصویر به آنچه در ذهن دارد نزدیک تر شود. در قدم سوم با استفاده از براش های نرم (Liquid smoothing brushes) لبه های شیء واضح تر می شوند و در نهایت با استفاده از براش های رنگ آمیزی (paint brushes) طرح شیء را تکمیل می کند. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار TwistedBrush Liquid Studio: - طراحی آسان و گام به گام اشیاء- تنظیم محیط کاربری با پنل های ابزارهای کاربردی برای دسترسی سریع تر- طراحی به صورت لایه ای- سیستم Brush Effects قدرتمند- براش های منعطف و قدرتمند- ذخیره سازی خودکار کپی های متعدد هنگام کار با نرم افزار- سازگاری براش ها با دیگر نرم افزارهای Pixarra Studio- و ... 
TwistedBrush Liquid Studio is a product born from TwistedBrush Pro Studio but with a focus on creation of individual objects that you might use in other Pro Studio or other art software and with a simpler, streamlined interface. The Liquid paints allow you to model and shape your objects and then paint them with the included brushes with the results being crisp lines you might see in illustration software but without the need to mask anything. You can even continue to shape your objects after they are painted. 
LIQUID ART CREATION The process of creation using Liquid Studio can roughly follow these steps with the first step painting a basic shape. There isn't a need to be accurate it will be shaped and tine tuned in later steps. Concentrate on creation of a silhouette of what you are trying to create.Using the liquid shaping brushes push and pull your shape to get it closer to what you want. Similar to working with clay but in 2D. The Liquid smoothing brushes can be used to further refine the shape as well as smooth the edges. Using the collection of paint brushes included with Liquid Studio you are now ready to paint your shape. There is no need to mask or select, only the objects on the current layer will be painted and you will have a crisp edge to your object. QUICK ACCESS PANELS On the right are two panels you will use a lot. The Color Management panel and the Brush Shortcut Panel. All the panels in Liquid Studio will automatically hide if they get in your way while painting. Manually hiding all panels is also possible with the F3 hotkey. QUICK COMMAND PANEL The Quick Command panel gives you a configurable array of buttons you can keep close at hand while working. Resize and reshape the panel to your needs. Add, remove and move buttons to create the layout that works best for you. Quickly show or hide the panel with the [F4] hotkey. Right click to edit a button or add one to an empty slot. [Ctrl] + click to drag a button to a new location. As an added bonus there is some functionality exposed in the Quick Command panel that isn't available anywhere else in Liquid Studio. POWERFUL BRUSH EFFECTS SYSTEM Since User ArtSets are available you might be thinking where will you get new brushes from. There are a number of ways, user shared brushes in the Pixarra forum, brushes imported from Pro Studio, OR now you can edit brushes right in Pixel Studio with the powerful Brush Effects system from Pro Studio. First an IMPORTANT NOTE: Editing brushes is NOT an easy task. There are over 500 different effects that can be combined in 28 effect layers with each effect processed with 100's of modifiers. I think it's safe to say the Pixarra brush effects system makes for the most powerful brush engine in existence. Evidenced in the ability with the same engine to draw simple lines or fully detailed tree with a single stroke as can be seen in Tree Studio.One of the common ways to use the Brush Effects panel is to tweak existing brushes in small ways to meet your needs and you can do this right in Liquid Studio and save them to the User ArtSets. LAYERS Easy access support for layers are in Liquid Studio. The idea is to keep your work flow simple and fast. A simple single click to create a layer with no scrolling. Right click a layer for additional options. Drag layers to rearrange them. OTHER FEATURES Above were just some of the features in Liquid Studio, there is much, much more. - 64 bit color painting system for the smoothest blends available anywhere.- Worlds most powerful and flexible brush engine with the Pixarra brush effects system- Automatic saving multiple copies of your work in progress.- Brush compatibility with other Pixarra Studio products.- Tracing paper to use as a guide. - Up to 9 floating reference Image panels to hold reference photos when working on your art.- Sketchbook system that automatically saves your work to your sketchbook. - Switching pages in your book with a single key press (Page Up or Page Down)- Saving your work to a range of standard image formats.- Work with symmetry with all the standard Liquid Studio brushes.- And many more features!