دسته: مکینتاش » نرم افزار , نرم افزار » توسعه , نرم افزار » کاربردی با نرم افزار TinkerTool System می توانید تنظیمات اصلی سیستم عامل مک خود را تغییر دهید. TinkerTool System یک مجموعه بزرگ از ابزار های کارآمد با ویژگی های فوق العاده می باشد که به شما اجازه می دهد سیستم و تنظیمات پیش فرض سیستم عامل خود را بر هم زنید. با این نرم افزار تجربه ی جدیدی از مک را در دست بگیرید. این برنامه با شناسایی نسخه سیستم عامل مک شما سریعا خودش را با سیستم عامل همگام می کند. تمامی تنظیمات در جایی به اسم Pans می باشند که شبیه System Preference می باشد. ویژگی های این برنامه از طریق سیگنال پنجره ها کنترل می شود که به شما اجازه می دهد از برنامه ها به عنوان یک جعبه ابزار استفاده کنید. قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار TinkerTool System: - دسترسی داشتن به تنظیمات اصلی سیستم عامل - یک ابزار اورژانسی برای رفع مشکلات بوجود آمده در سیستم عامل مک - ویژگی هایی برای مراقبت کردن از حریم شخصی- دارای گزینه ای برای جمع آوری تمامی اطلاعات سخت افزاری و نرم افزاری سیستم شما- و ... 
TinkerTool System is a collection of system utility features helping you in performing advanced administration tasks on Apple Macintosh computers. The application makes use of a self-adapting user interface which automatically adjusts to the computer model and to the version of OS X you are running. All options available in the current situation are accessible via “panes”, very similar to the techniques you already know from the System Preferences application. The features are controlled via a single window which allows you to use the application as a general toolbox and First Aid assistant. 
TinkerTool System Key Features :- built-in maintenance features of OS X, usually not visible on the graphical user interface,- extended file operations, not available in the OS X Finder,- the possibility to access advanced system settings which are not visible in System Preferences,- genuine and unique features of TinkerTool System, designed to resolve typical real-world problems of administrators and to fix the effects of certain defects ("bugs") in the operating system,- an emergency tool to troubleshoot and repair OS X in cases where the graphical user interface is no longer starting correctly or the user account of the system administrator has been damaged,- features to protect your privacy, e.g. by reviewing and editing the list of Internet cookies stored for your user account,- functions to collect advanced information about the hardware, operating system, and applications. Together with its sister program TinkerTool which is available at no charge, TinkerTool System is a perfect substitute for the following types of system utilities: - Finder enhancers,- Cache and font cache cleaners,- Tools to access hidden preference settings,- Applications to make objects invisible in the Finder,- Internet browser privacy protection tools,- Cookie managers for Safari,- Tools to remove international language support files,- Log file browsers,- Single User Mode troubleshooting tools,- Spell-checker dictionary editors,and many others .Version 5.90 (Build 180123) - Added new feature to check whether the nesting of folders with long names may cause technical issues in some applications, when the maximum number of bytes in absolute file paths that is guaranteed to be supported by the operating system is exceeded.- The application now makes the user aware if an old license with manual registration entry has been activated with the option to become valid for a non-administrative user account only. This configuration no longer makes sense, so the registration should be re-entered with the option to become either valid for an administrator or for all user accounts.- The application no longer offers evaluation mode without license to non-administrative users because such accounts would not be capable to test all features.- The application now makes clear that the diagnostic feature to test fans cannot be used with the iMac Pro at this time.- The option not to wake mobile computers when the display lid is opened had to be removed. Although this setting is still offered and documented by Apple, it no longer has an effect on portable Macs.- Fixed a problem where the toolbar button in the control window to navigate to the pane overview could not be pressed in certain situations. More info (open/close) 
macOS 10.12 or later, 64-bit processor مشخصات 
قیمت: 14 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 37 مگابایت