New year 'year of backing national products, employment, progress' News ID: 4256221   In his televised Nowruz address, President Rouhani described year 1396 as the year of success for the great Iranian nation in various fields despite the wish of the enemies and said “the unity among the Iranian nation has surprised all enemies and they admitted to the greatness of our people." 
Kermanshah province, President Hassan Rouhani said “as the Supreme Leader said, the new year is the year of national production, supporting Iranian goods and the year of employment and progress." 
He also went on to say “I congratulate the great Iranian nation in every corner of this country and all Iranians around the world, as well as those neighbouring countries that celebrate Nowruz." 
Congratulating the new year to the families of the martyrs and veterans, the President said “we must remember those who have chosen to serve the people instead of sitting at home, doctors, nurses, pilots, drivers, border guards, the police and all those who are at the oil wells, control rooms of the ambulances, firefighter trucks and on the roads to serve the people." 
Our people sympathise with those who have mourned for their loved ones because of the floods, earthquake or incidents in the air or water, said the President, adding “last year was the year of victory and success of the Iranian nation, especially during the elections." 
He also said that the enemies wanted to use the pretext to break the Iranian nation, adding: “But the unity of the Iranian nation surprised them and they admitted to the greatness of this nations." 
The President also went on to say “our great nation, who have been promoter of peace in the region, were able to bring about more security and stability for the region by standing by the people of Iraq, Syria and Lebanon with the attempts of their sincere soldiers and hard-working diplomats." 
Saying that during the last year, great steps have been taken in various fields such as agriculture, Dr Rouhani added “although we had shortage of water, but our farmers achieved self-sufficiency in wheat production and will do the same in the new year." 
“Our engineers and workers, and those who have been working in the railway projects in different provinces throughout the country, connected Hamedan and Kermanshah to the nationwide railway network and will do the same for three other provinces as well,” added the President. 
He also went on to call on the great Iranian nation to help in the advancement of the country, saying “although there are still many problems remaining, we have time to compensate for the past shortcomings." 
Stressing the importance of employment, he said “last year, our employment rate was unparalleled in the history of our country, and in the new year, we must mark a higher rate." 
On fighting absolute poverty, President Rouhani said “the 12th Government will continue to fight poverty. For all occupations, employees and workers we have worked towards balancing the minimum wages and will continue this programme." 
Making a request from the great Iranian nation, he said: “The new year is the year of investment and production. We must all attempt to increase production. Our power will be alongside our production and it is our entrepreneurs who can take significant steps in the new year." 
“My next request is from our dear young generation, whom the future of the country belongs to, to continue working on the path of making the country proud. What is important for all of us is the pride of Islam and Iran, and the welfare and the Iranian nation,” the President added. 
Stressing that the government will carry out its commitments, Dr Rouhani added “the government is committed to the employment, vitality and freedom for the young generation, and their continued access to information." 
“Of course, we need a secure, easy and inexpensive cyberspace with morality and spirituality,” he said adding that the people will witness more transparency in the new year. 
At the end of this address, President Rouhani prayed for blessings, morality, tolerance, unity and integrity for the Iranian nation, as well as progress and development for the country. 
LR/PR