Time : Sunday, April 15, 2018 News ID: 437214 Anti-war protesters rally in New York City against Syria strike Rasa - Anti-war protesters have held demonstrations in New York City, calling on the world to “defend Syria and defeat US imperialism,” after President Donald Trump ordered a military strike against the war-ravaged country. According to Press TV, RNA - The protesters rallied in Union Square, New York City, on Saturday, after the US, British and French forces launched airstrikes against government facilities in Syria. The protesters were holding signs, reading, “US out of Syria and the near East,”“No War on Syria” and “US/NATO Get Your Bloody Hands Off Syria.” They called Trump “a fascist,” who should be removed from office. “We have a plan to drive him out of office,” a protester said, adding, “If you think we can wait it out, if you think we can wait for the Mueller investigation, then you’re not getting (it).” Trump is determined to “destroy norms, and actually go after the world,” she said, adding, “In the name of humanity, we refuse to accept fascist America.” Eva Sahanna, another protester said, “The United States has no right to send these airstrikes over to Syria and its allies have no right to do so either. There isn’t evidence that (Syrian President Bashar al-) Assad used chemical weapons.” A similar rally was held in Chicago with demonstrators holding placards of "No US Attacks on Syria" , "No US Bombing of Syria" and "American Lives Are Not More Important Than Other People's Lives." They put into question the real purpose of the US military strike, saying it was for the need of US competition with its power rivalries. "We are here to say that we do not stand for this attack, and this attack will only lead to more devastating conflict, potentially could even spire into a mass of regional war that cause many lives. And it has nothing to do with the safeguarding or protecting innocent people anywhere," said one of the demonstrators. In the early hours of Saturday, the US, Britain and France launched a barrage of missile attacks against Syria in response to what they claim to have been a chemical attack by the Syrian government in the town of Douma in the suburb of Damascus on April 7. Syria rejected the accusations as “chemical fabrications” made by the foreign-backed terrorists in the country in a bid to halt advances by pro-government forces. According to Press TV, Syrian air defenses responded firmly to the Western powers’ attacks, shooting down most of the missiles fired at the country. The Pentagon, however, has claimed that the airstrikes "successfully hit every target." US officials said that Tomahawk cruise missiles and other types of bombs were used in the attack.