Politics TEHRAN, Apr. 15 (MNA) – Iranian Leader's top adviser for International Affairs Ali Akbar Velayati says Iran and China's relations are growing, adding that a Chinese delegation will visit the Iran's Chabahar Port. 
Ali Akbar Veleyati made the remarks in a meeting as well as on the sidelines of the meeting with a member of China’s Foreign Policy Advisory Committee in Tehran this morning. 
In the meeting, Velayati said “fortunately, the relations between China and Iran are growing,” adding that Chinese and Iranian officials have had constructive meetings for a long time. 
He added “the relations between the two countries are constructive and strategic while these meetings further deepen our relations.” 
The member of China’s Foreign Policy Advisory Committee, for his part, said that China and Iran enjoy ancient civilizations, adding their bilateral relations go back to thousands of years ago through the Silk Road. 
Also, on the sidelines of the meeting, the Iranian Leader's top adviser for international affairs hailed his meeting with the Chinese official saying they had discussed Syria, the nuclear deal with Iran known as the JCPOA, as well as the strategic relations between Iran and China. 
Velayati told reporters that the attacks by the United States and his allies were conducted because they were angry at the victories recently made by the Syrian forces against the terrorists in Syria. 
Regarding China’s position on the attacks, Velayati said that China like Iran opposes any acts against the international law. 
In relation to China’s approach to JCPOA, the Iranian official said that China believes that Iran acts in accordance with its obligations, adding that he had told the Chinese delegation that other parties to the pact must force the United States to abide by its obligations. 
Velayati said “since the Chinese president's vivit to Iran in 2016, the bilateral relations between the two countries have been growing.” 
The Iranian official went on to remind that during the Chinese foreign minister visit to Iran two years ago, the two sides stressed the need for increasing bilateral trade to $200 billion. 
KI/4270980,4271147 