Iranian MPs condemn trilateral aggression in Syria News ID: 4271342 - Politics TEHRAN, Apr. 15 (MNA) – 239 Members of Iranian Parliament issued joint statement on Sunday condemning the tripartite attack on Syria by US, UK, and France and reassured that the westerners’ new set of goals in Syria will fail. 
A joint statement, signed by 239 Iranian lawmakers, was read at the end of the public meeting of Sunday at Iranian Parliament in Tehran. The statement condemns the tripartite military attack on Syria by US, UK, and France. 
“US as the global axis of evil, along with France and UK staged large-scale attacks on the Islamic country of Syria at the early hours of the day of Eid al-Mab'ath of the great profit of Islam demonstrates the pinnacle of their animosity towards the Islamic Umma,” reads the opening of the statement. 
“The Americans, who have been in a proxy war against Syria in the last 7 years with hiring and dispatching tens of thousands of terrorists trained at the military bases of Syria’s neighboring countries and utilizing the capacities of their European and regional allies, failed to change the political system of Syria which is based on popular votes and they have endured a hard defeat. As a result, the Americans fanned the fires of war again at the time that the Syrian crisis was to settle politically with aid of UK and France in a missile attack.” 
“More disappointing is the accompaniment with the attack by some Arab and Muslin states which welcomed the attacks and sparked a new wave of hatred among the Islamic Umma. We, as the advocates of the big nation of Iran, strongly condemn the crimes committed by US, UK, and France and re-voice our categorical support for Syria as the front-runner of the resistance front. We are assured that US will fail to meet its new set of goals in Syria as it has done in the past 7 years and the Syrian government and nation with their historical and lasting resistance will go through this difficult conflict victoriously.” 
The Iranian MPs announcement was made on Sunday after a coordinated missile attack by US, UK and France on Syria in the early hours of Saturday over an alleged chemical attack in the Damascus suburb last week. 
Earlier on Saturday, Iranian Leader Ayatollah Khamenei condemned joint airstrikes by the US, the UK and France on Syria as “crime,” describing the leaders of the three Western states as “criminals.” 
On the same day, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that the US aggression in the region “will have no result but annihilation and destruction,” adding that the aggressors “seek to justify their presence in the region through these attacks.” 
The aggressors are angry about the defeats of the terrorists they supported in Syria’s Eastern Ghouta region, he pointed out, stressing, however, that the Syrian people will keep up their resistance. 
Earlier, Iran's foreign ministry strongly condemned the strikes as a violation of international law, warning against the repercussions of such an act of aggression against an independent country. 
“The aggression is a flagrant violation of international law and a disregard of Syria’s right to national sovereignty and territorial integrity,” the Iranian foreign ministry said in a statement released on Saturday. 
Syria came under attack one week after a suspected chemical weapons attack hit the Syrian town of Douma near Damascus. 
Western countries blamed the incident on the Syrian government, but Damascus rejected the accusations as “chemical fabrications” made by the terrorists themselves in a bid to halt pro-government forces’ advances. 
The fresh strikes by the US marked the second time that President Donald Trump has authorized attacks on Syria. 
He had ordered a missile strike against Shayrat Airbase in Syria’s Homs Province on April 7, 2017. He claimed back then that the air field had been the origin of a suspected sarin gas attack on the town of Khan Shaykhun in Syria’s Idlib Province on April 4, 2017. 
YNG/4271259