Washington’s biggest mistake in Syria News ID: 4271253 - Opinion > Op-Ed TEHRAN, Apr. 15 (MNA) – US, UK and French air strikes in Syria has attracted the attention of many media outlets and analysts. The US, despite Trump’s claims, has carried out a limited attack on the Middle Eastern country, but its consequences will certainly affect Trump and his allies in the near future. The issue can be analyzed from various angles. 
First, the Trump’s administration’s objective in Syria was to salvage terrorist groups and takfiris. The fact is that the US has opened a special account for extremists such as ISIL, Jabhat al-Nusra and Jaish al-Islam, in line with the rise of the security crises in Syria and West Asia. With the defeat of terrorist groups, a significant part of the US capital and its partners in the region would have been lost, and thus the US has spared no effort to revitalize the assets. 
Second, during the 2016 presidential election, Donald Trump promised US citizens that his administration would cut US foreign policy costs in Western Asia and focus more on America’s internal affairs. However, Trump has proved otherwise and has taken the same path that former US president Barak Obama took (supporting the war and insecurity in Syria), and perhaps Trump has even put Obama to shame with his international expenditures. As mentioned "creation of insecurity in Syria and the West Asia region" is a major objective in US foreign policy, supported by both Democratic and Republican Parties. 
In addition to America’s, Britain’s and France’s participation in the recent attacks on Syria, it also reflects the lack of rationality and reveals the dangerous game of the European partners and their American ally in Syria. Over the past five years, France and Britain, along with the US, have made every effort to overthrow the ruling system in Syria, but to no avail. Francois Hollande and Emmanuel Macron, as the former and current French presidents respectively, have done their utmost to support the terrorist groups in Syria. Paris is considered to be the main sponsor of Saudi Arabia, an Arab country that is also known as the main supporter of terrorist groups in Syria and Iraq. 
Ultimately, the United States, Britain, France, the Zionist regime and Saudi Arabia will pay a very high price for the air strikes. The Oval Office and its allies have seriously miscalculated the consequences of the attacks and made security mistakes. It's as if Washington and its partners have not learned their lesson in Syria and the West Asia region for the last five years. 
MNA/TT