US-led strikes on Syria merely 'a show of bully tactics’ News ID: 4270979 - Politics TEHRAN, Apr. 15 (MNA) – Parl. Speaker Ali Larijani said Sun. that the recent attack by the United States, Britain and France against Syria, while contravening international law, was merely a show of ‘bullying tactics’. 
Ali Larijani made the remarks in an open Parliament session on Sunday in reaction to the Western missile attacks on Syria under the pretext of a response to an alleged chemical attack in Douma. 
Larijani noted that the claim of a chemical attack has been refuted by Russia and Syria, who had in turn called for an investigation by international organizations. Larijani added that the Western attack could not have any legal basis because it was carried out without respecting any international mechanisms. 
Larijani went on to name the actual reason for the attack as the recent ground developments in Syria, adding “the surrounding areas near Damascus had been for years serving as a terrorist haven with the help of certain major powers and rouge states in the region, but the recent measure by the Syrian Army and Popular Forces cleansed the area of terrorists which baffled the terrorist-sponsor countries for how quickly they managed to achieve that.” 
“The Saudis in advance handed out their money to the Americans in order to encourage them to bomb Syria, in a pipe dream of changing the course of events and reviving the haven for takfiri terrorists,” he added. 
Larijani went on to express regret over the silence and support of certain Islamic countries toward the US aggression, adding “the betrayal of some Muslim governments by getting involved in such political filths will remain in the memory of Muslim masses.” 
Larijani, on behalf of the Iranian Parliament, condemned the Western attack, adding that the time for making such “false gestures” has long passed. 
He further stressed that the attacks would only serve to strengthen the Syrian nation’s resolve in the fight against terrorism. 
MS/4270917