US limited symbolic attack on Syria News ID: 4270860 - Opinion > Op-Ed TEHRAN, Apr. 15 (MNA) – Recent chemical attacks in Douma, Syria provoked international community’s anger. The attacks happened when the Syrian army had upper hand and inflicted heavy defeat to the terrorist groups in the region. Couple of weeks before the attacks, Russian officials had repeatedly announced that some efforts were being made by some terrorist groups in the region to carry out chemical attack intending to create enough pretexts for the US to invade Damascus. As the Russian officials had predicted, based on a pre-designed plan the chemical attacks in Douma were carried out by the terrorist groups in coordination with some foreign forces present in the area. Minutes after the attacks Washington, Paris and London accused Syrian government forces of the attacks without presenting any documents and began to threaten Damascus with military assault. The US, France and the UK threats against Syrian government led to strong reaction from Syrian allies, Russia and Iran. Russian ambassador to Beirut warned that any missiles launched against Syria not only would be shot down but also the locations the missile are launched from would be targeted. In a meeting with Syrian President Bashar Assad in Damascus also senior adviser to Iranian Leader Ali Akbar Velayati emphasized that Iran would fully support Syria against any encounter with foreign military aggression. Following Syria’s allies serious warnings against any foreign military aggression on Damascus, despite his initial rhetoric threats and 48 hour deadline, the US president Donald Trump began to retreat and softened his tone. Trump had earlier tweeted “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!” but after the Russians warning just in 40 minutes softened his tone against Russia and suggested Russia working together and ending an arm race. Also after serious reaction from Syria’s allies, France retreated from its previous stance and announced the possible attacks on Syria would be carried out from its main land not from its warships or bases in the region. This could decrease the possibility of the Russia’s retaliatory attacks on France since the country is NATO member. While Russia reacted seriously to US threats against Damascus, reports of secret talks between Moscow and Washington were published that showed Russia's firmness and seriousness against the United States. Russians emphasized that the US missiles must target terrorists not Syrian legal government fighting against terrorism. Finally 2 days after the end of President Trump’s deadline, the US and its allies launched a limited symbolic missile and aerial attacks on Syria. The above and below mentioned points indicate the limited symbolic attacks by the US have been carried out just to keep Trump’s face as the US president whose initial tweets were even confusing for his advisers: - Announcing clearly that Assad government would not be target of attacks before the assault which was later reconfirmed by France after the attacks. - The US announced the operation lasted just 60 minutes and continued air strikes will not take place. - US Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Gen. Joseph Dunford after the attack said the de-confliction line with Russia was "active" this week. -Dunford also said the targets in Syria were decided on with the goal of minimizing impact on Russian forces. - Pentagon Chief, Mattis opposed any prices on Russia and Iran during the attack in a meeting with Trump and his advisers. -No key places like Damascus international airport were targeted. Blackmailing Saudi Arabia by promising Saudi Prince Bin Salman again to confront Iran in the region during his recent visit to Washington, derailing Astana talks on Syria, diverting public opinion inside America from Trump’s moral scandal in respect to his illegal relation with a porn star and trying to keep Iran busy to prevent Iran’s retaliatory attack on Israel regime for the regime’s attack on a Syrian base where some Iranians were stationed. Related News