TEHRAN, Apr. 15 (MNA) – Anthony Cartalucci is of the opinion that the US exit from Syria without toppling Assad will announce to the world that America's uni-polar international order has come to an end. Accusing Syrian government of chemical attack in Douma, Donald Trump rhetorically threatened to assault on Syria. On Wednesday, trump tweeted “Russia vows to shoot down any and all missiles fired at Syria. Get ready Russia, because they will be coming, nice and new and “smart!” You shouldn’t be partners with a Gas Killing Animal who kills his people and enjoys it!” But just in 40 minutes he softened his tone and tweeted, “our relationship with Russia is worse now than it has ever been, and that includes the Cold War. There is no reason for this. Russia needs us to help with their economy, something that would be very easy to do, and we need all nations to work together. Stop the arms race?” To shed more light on the real reasons behind the US assault on Syria, we discussed the issue with Bangkok- based geopolitical researcher Anthony Cartalucci just one day before the US, UK and France attack. Here is the full text of the interview with him: Commenting on the US attack on Syria under the pretext of using chemical weapons by Syrian government in Douma, Cartalucci said, “US efforts to attack Syria after this supposed "chemical attack" come at a time when Syria and its allies just finished securing the last major pockets of militants around the capital of Damascus.” “They are rushing ahead before any sort of investigation can be undertaken - this includes directing the Israelis to carry out a tentative first strike. They rush because the results of any investigation are likely going to reveal the attack was staged. But the results of such an investigation will be moot if the world is already talking about the consequences of America's rushed military intervention.” He went on to say, “The goal of the attack will depend on how big the attack actually ends up being. It could range from a small, symbolic attack carried out in the vain hope that Syria or its allies overreact and justify a wider US military response - to a much larger attack aimed at either destroying Syria's air force or finally toppling the Syrian government itself. There is the possibility that the US may carry out a limited strike while Israel targets more significant Syrian government targets, providing the US with plausible deniability ahead of possible retaliations against Israel and wider war.” Referring to the possible consequences of US failure in Syria, he added, “For the US to leave Syria now without accomplishing regime change, will announce to the world that America's unipolar international order has come to an end. Other nations facing US meddling or military aggression will be bolstered by and contribute to the accelerated emergence of a multipolar world order led by the nations that have defended Syria. US actions now appear to be a desperate attempt to reassert US primacy and prevent that from happening.” Interview by Payman Yazdani