بازدید: 2,165 دسته: مکینتاش » نرم افزار , نرم افزار » گرافیکی , نرم افزار » دسکتاپ , نرم افزار » مالتی مدیا , نرم افزار » کاربردی MKV نوعی پسوند بسیار کاربردی برای فایل های تصویری با کیفیت بالا و حجم کم می باشد. اگر شما نیز دارای فایل های تصویری با این پسوند ها هستید به راحتی توسط MKVtools می توانید اقدام به ویرایش این فیلم های خود بکنید. این نرم افزار ا مک ان برش و میکس فیلم، تبدیل به فرمت های ویدیویی مختلف، چسباندن فایل های ویدئویی و ... را دارا می باشد. قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار MKVtools: - برش و میکس فیلم - تبدیل به فرمت های ویدیویی مختلف- چسباندن فایل های ویدئویی- جداسازی صوت از فیلم- و ... 
MKVtools is a collection of tools used to manipulate video files. It's primary purpose is to convert mkv files into more user friendly formats for playback on a variety of hardware. MKVtools is the part of the VIDEOtoolbox Suite of Applications used for the creation and editing of MKV videos. For users of the original MVtools (i.e., MKVtools 2), the naming convention could be a bit confusing. 
This is a new and improved version of the application which will focus on what the original version was not very good at - the creation and editing of MKV files. It will not, however, create MP4 or AVI files. If you are looking to convert videos to either MP4 or AVI videos, then you should try either M4tools or AVItools. As the name might imply, MKVtools is a graphical interface for a variety of tools useful for processing video files. Features Include: - Convert from a variety of video file formats like MKV, MP4, OGM and AVI into MKV videos.. - Can convert most videos without having to re-encode the video track and/or the audio track, so processing takes minutes instead of hours and no quality is lost. - Simplified, intuitive user interface that takes the guess work out of processing MKV videos. - Ability to convert various surround sound audio to 5.1 AC3 or 5.1 AAC. - Intuitively select desired video, audio and/or subtitle tracks to process, with the ability to verify the selections using video preview. - Define presets for one step automated encoding and track selections settings. - Burn (i.e., hard code) subtitle tracks into the video, or mux (soft subtitles) from internal tracks or from external subtitle files commonly found on the internet. - Control the font, size and positioning of the embedded subtitles. - Split MKV videos into segments of a specified file size or by start/end time. - Turn off an MKV video's header removal compression to allow more compatibility with playback and editing. - Join MKV videos. - Extract the selected tracks from MKV videos as individual video and/or audio files. - Add jobs to a queue either individually or in batches via drag and drop so you can process multiple files overnight (registered copies only). - Apply one setting to a group of files for easy batch creations (registered copies only). - Enter a "Watch Mode" for which MKVtools will process all videos placed in a defined folder (registered copies only). What's New in Version 3.7.0: - Release notes were unavailable when this listing was updated. More info (open/close) سیستم مورد نیاز 
MKVtools is Intel-only (64-bit) and requires Mac OS X 10.9.x or later. It has been tested on a MacBook Pro and a Mac Pro with no known issues. مشخصات 
قیمت: 19.99 دلار آمریکا (صرفاً جهت اطلاع) حجم فایل: 200 مگابایت