(97/1/27) تغییرات: به روز رسانی نسخه اندروید به ورژن 9.0.8 بوسیله نرم افزار Camera360 Ultimate می توانید حرفه ای ترین عکس ها را با سبک های متفاوت از جمله LOMO, HDR, axis shift, draft, ghost عکس برداری کنید. همچنین می توانید انواع جلوه ها، منظره ها، فیلترهای عکس و تغییر یا حذف رنگها را همزمان با عکسبرداری روی عکس پیاده کنید. این نرم افزار دارای قابلیت های بسیاری است و با داشتن آن بر روی موبایل خود یک دوربین نیمه حرفه ای را همیشه همراه خود دارید. ویژگی های اپلیکیشن موبایل Camera360 Ultimate: - ارائه 100 اثر فوق العاده زیبا- ا مک ان ویرایش حرفه ای تصاویر- قابلیت به اشتراک گذاری تصاویر تغییرات نسخه 8.3.1 - نمایش زمان با " عکس پویا"- خروجی گرفتن از عکس ها به عنوان ویدیو- انتخاب محل ذخیره هنگام انتشار محتوا- نزدیک شدن به جشنواره سنتی چینی 2017 
Camera 360 -- The most popular APP for mobile phone photography on other platform, is unveiling on iPhone and Android platform now, with its total now brand, interface and operation .Believe or not. It will bring you the great fresh experience. 
Camera 360 is a world’s favorite application software for mobile photo photography; it will let your photo taken by mobile photo more charming, interesting and funny. The following are its shining points deserve your attention: - Brand new operation interface: shoot in your most comfortable way, the shutter design is suitable for human engineering. - Initiate focus and photometry by single finger slide - Initiate removal red eye automatically - Super continuous shooting: its speed will up to 180 pieces per minute and capture each fantastic moment. - Two grid, four grid jigsaw shooting function: make your photo vividly - Easy to share: direct to share your photo to Flickr, Facebook and Sina Weibo. More than that, Camera 360 provides the most popular 13 kinds of special effect camera function as well, it includes: Effect Enhancement Camera: choose this camera will make your photo’s level more richer not only indoors but also outside, no matter day or night. LOMO Camera: make your photo more magic and own your individual personality. Black and White Camera: Even use the simplest black and white effect, you could feel the diverse experience from that, go to search please, believe it will bring you different surprises. Japanese style Camera: Babes favorite, the sweet style. HDR Camera: super HDR, make your scenery photo full of visual impact. Retro Camera: with its strong classic retro visual effect, the photo will show dense visual impact and mysterious atmosphere and it represents an unprecedented freedom with romance, freedom. Hand Painted Camera: take you into the cartoon world, and reach the perfect integration between reality and art painting. Ambilight Camera: An absolutely fabulous photo effect, make your photo looking like the fairyland. Dreamy Camera: embrace the dreamy beauty. 1839 Camera: let’s take the photo back to 1839 while the first generation camera was invented and experience the changing history. Funny Camera: make your photo funny and full of interest immediately. Ghost Camera: WOW! Ghost!! Yeah, the ghost is all around, use your ghost camera and let them appear! Appreciate your focus on our application, if there’s any problem during your use, please feel free to Email us: support@pinguo.us, we will take full support for you. Make the best application software for mobile phone photography! More info (open/close)