Time : Monday, April 16, 2018 News ID: 437221 Arab League should try to solve regional problems instead of blaming Iran Rasa - Iran has said that the Arab League should take steps towards helping restore stability in the region instead of repeating its lies and baseless allegations against Tehran. RNA - Iranian Foreign Ministry Spokesman Bahram Qassemi made the remarks early on Monday in response to the final communique of Arab League's 29th summit. "This statement, similar to former statements, was focused on repeating false and baseless claims and lies against the Islamic Republic, instead of being aimed at finding the source of the region's problems," he said. "The league's final statement was clearly under the heavy shadow of Saudi Arabia's destructive policies," he added. The Iranian foreign ministry spokesman further stressed that Tehran's policies are based on respecting the sovereignty of other countries, and maintaining good relations with its neighbors. During the summit, Saudi King Salman bin Abdulaziz criticized Tehran's influence on Arab countries, claiming that it violated the principles of international law. “We renew our strong condemnation of terrorist acts carried out by Iran in the Arab region, and we reject its blatant interference in the internal affairs of Arab countries,” he said. According to Press TV, t he league also called for an international probe into the “criminal” use of chemical weapons in Syria. “We stress our absolute condemnation of the use of chemical weapons against the sisterly Syrian people and we demand an independent international investigation to guarantee the application of international law to everyone proven to use chemical weapons,” said its final statement. The summit was held some two days after United States, France and Britain, hit three sites, one in Damascus, and two in the city of Homs, in Syria which US President Donald Trump claimed were “associated with the chemical weapon capabilities” of the Syrian government. The tripartite Western countries announced that strikes were carried out as a punitive measure against Damascus for a suspected poison gas attack they claimed was purportedly conducted on April 7 by the Syrian government on Douma, the largest town in Eastern Ghouta near the Syrian capital, which reportedly killed 60 people and injured hundreds more.