  437226 Protests over Syria airstrikes continue across US Rasa - A large number of anti-war protesters have again held demonstrations in cities across the United States to condemn the US-led airstrikes on Syria, where the government of President Bashar al-Assad in fighting foreign-sponsored terrorists. RNA - Demonstrations were held in New York City, Atlanta, Minneapolis, Chicago, Oakland and Washington, DC, on Sunday, a day after similar protests were staged in several American cities, including Los Angeles and San Francisco. Protesters also demonstrated outside the homes of Democratic Senators Dianne Feinstein and House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi in San Francisco. “We want both Feinstein and Pelosi to speak out against the bombing and the continued war,” said Eleanor Levine, an organizer of anti-war group Code Pink Women for Peace. “We disrupted neighborhoods and people in Syria. It’s our goal to bring this struggle to their neighborhoods.” “Our demand is that we have no right to have a military presence in Syria,” said Levine. Demonstrations were held placards in support of peace and against America’s interventionist foreign policy. US President Donald Trump this weekend ordered American forces to launch missile strikes in Syria. on Saturday morning, the armed forces of the US, Britain and France launched a barrage of cruise missiles on three different targets in Syria, saying it was the right thing to do to deter the further use of chemical weapons. The US and its allies had been threatening Damascus with military action since April 7, when a suspected chemical attack on the Syrian town of Douma, Eastern Ghouta, reportedly killed 60 people and injured hundreds more. Russia said the chemical attack was staged by desperate militants to provoke further intervention in the conflict by the West. According to Press TV, Trump on Saturday declared "mission accomplished" in the strike and argued that it "could not have had a better result." "A perfectly executed strike last night," Trump tweeted Saturday. "Thank you to France and the United Kingdom for their wisdom and the power of their fine Military. Could not have had a better result. Mission Accomplished!" Trump's declaration was widely seen as premature and narrow-minded, an echo of former President George W. Bush landing on an aircraft carrier to declare “mission accomplished” in Iraq 15 years ago.