  437227 Syria in Last 24 Hours: Army Seizes Terrorists' Large Chemical Weapons Workshop in Eastern Ghouta Rasa - The Syrian government troops found a workshop in Eastern Ghouta on Sunday used by the terrorists for producing arms, bombs and chemical weapons. RNA - The Syrian army continued its military and mop-up operations in Aftaris region in Eastern Ghouta and discovered a large workshop with an advanced laboratory for making chemical weapons in an area that was once terrorists' positions. Meantime, the Syrian army continued its military advances in other parts of Syria over the past 24 hours. Tens of terrorists were killed and dozens more were injured during the Syrian army's operations in provinces across Syria. Damascus The Syrian Army troops found a workshop in Eastern Ghouta on Sunday used by the terrorists for producing arms, bombs and chemical weapons. The army men continued mop-up operation in Aftaris region in Eastern Ghouta and discovered a large workshop with an advanced laboratory for making chemical weapons in an area that was once terrorists' positions. A large volume of poisonous and chemical materials, including chlorine and safety uniforms were discovered in the workshop. Also, a large number of missiles, artillery and mortar shells and bombs were found in the workshop. Meantime, the Syrian Army dispatched more soldiers and military hardware to the Southern countryside of Damascus on Sunday to launch an imminent operation against ISIL terrorists. The army forwarded hundreds of fresh soldiers, several tanks, military vehicles and heavy weapons to Hajireh region near Hajar al-Aswad region that is the most important base of ISIL in the Southern countryside of Damascus city. The army has been reinvigorating its military power in Southern Damascus in the last two week to lay siege on the entire ISIL-held regions and launch a large-scale operation against terrorists. The army is to purge Southern Damascus of terrorists after ending its current operation in Eastern Ghouta. Security sources said the army's Southern Damascus operation has been delayed due to the Saturday missile attacks of the US, UK and France on the country. The ISIL terrorists, emboldened by the US-led airstrikes against the Syrian army positions on Saturday morning, attacked the military bases of the army in Southern Damascus. Idlib Tahrir al-Sham Hay'at (the Levant Liberation Board or the Al-Nusra Front) stormed the positions of Syria's Tahrir Front on Sunday and captured more regions in Southern Idlib after talks on easing differences among militants failed in Northern Syria. Tahrir al-Sham and Syria's Tahrir Front started again exchanging fire in Northern Hama, Southern Idlib and Western Aleppo after a several-day pause in infighting among militants. Tahrir al-Sham managed to capture the town of Khan Sheikhoun and the villages of Sheikh Mustafa, Mowaqa, Kafr Ein, Heish, Sahyan, Sheikh Dames, Kafr Masda, Madhaya, al-Ameriyeh, Tal Aas and the key of hill of Tal Aas. Tahrir further deployed forces in the villages of Ma'ar Tamater, Jabala, Ma'ar Zita, Kafr Sajna and Rakaya Sajna in Southern Idlib after rival militants' withdrawal. In the meantime, Syria's Tahrir Front sent more troops and military equipment to the town of Dar al-Izzah in Western Aleppo to face any possible attack by Tahrir al-Sham. Aleppo The Ankara-backed militants on Sunday prevented civilians from entering their own houses in the Turkey-occupied Afrin region to settle the Al-Nusra-affiliated Faylaq al-Rahman terrorists who have arrived from Eastern Ghouta in the town. Militants of Jeish al-Sharqiyeh affiliated to the Turkey-backed Free Syrian Army (FSA) stormed residents of the town of Jandaris in Southern Afrin after they called on the militants to allow them to live in their houses that had been occupied by Faylaq al-Rahman militants. Faylaq al-Rahman is affiliated to the Al-Nusra Front that is backed by Turkey. Yet, the Turkey-backed militants have treated other militant groups like Jeish Al-Islam that are backed by Saudi Arabia differently, forcing them to surrender their weapons and stay in camps. In the meantime, the London-based pro-opposition Syrian Observatory for Human Rights (SOHR) reported that the Turkish army and allied militants started detaining civilians in Afrin region after the Ankara forces looted their assets, and further demanded ransom for their release. SOHR further said that talks are underway between the Turkish intelligence and Faylaq al-Rahman commanders to be relocated to Afrin and its countryside. A main group of Faylaq militants and their family members left Eastern Ghouta for Northern Syria a couple of days ago. Homs Terrorist groups, deployed in parts of Aleppo and Homs provinces, launched heavy attacks on the Syrian Army positions after the US, UK and France targeted the Syrian territory on Saturday. The Al-Nusra Front (also known as Fatah al-Sham Front or the Levant Liberation Board), deployed in the town of Khan Touman in Southwestern Aleppo, launched Grade missile attack on the army positions near a military airport. In the meantime, other terrorist groups stormed the army positions and engaged in fierce clashes with the army men after the US, France and Britain launched missile attacks on the war-held country's soil on Saturdays. The army's artillery and missile units also pounded terrorists' positions in Taldu and Kafr Laha regions in Northern Homs, inflicting major losses on the terrorists. Experts believe that the terrorists' intensified attacks on the army in Aleppo and Homs prove coordination between them and the US-led coalition.