  437228 Fresh Saudi aerial aggression kills at least 6 people across Yemen Rasa - At least six civilians have been killed and several others wounded when Saudi warplanes conducted multiple airstrikes against residential areas across war-ravaged Yemen as Saudi Arabia continues with its atrocious bombardment campaign against its impoverished neighbor. RNA - Yemen's official Saba news agency, citing an unnamed military official on Monday, reported that at least two women and one man were killed after Saudi fighter jets pounded a residential area in the Manakhah district of the western province of Sana’a, adding that a child was also injured in the raid. Yemen's Arabic-language al-Masirah satellite television network, however, raised the number of people wounded to five, excluding the child. It added that another child was wounded in a separate airstrike in Sa'fan district in the same province. Meanwhile, Saba news agency, in another report, said that at least one child was killed and her mother and sister were injured after Saudi warplanes hit their house in Bakil al-Mir district in the northwestern province of Hajjah. Additionally on Monday, at least two civilians lost their lives after Saudi snipers mortally injured them in Manba border district in the northern province of Sa’ada, Saba further reported, citing an unnamed security official. The Saudi aggression was launched in March 2015 in support of Yemen’s former Riyadh-friendly government and against the country’s Houthi Ansarullah movement, which has been running state affairs in the absence of an effective administration. According to Press TV, the offensive has, however, achieved neither of its goals despite the spending of billions of petrodollars and the enlisting of Saudi Arabia's regional and Western allies. The Yemeni Ministry of Human Rights announced in a statement on March 25 that the Saudi-led war had left 600,000 civilians dead and injured during the past three years. The United Nations says a record 22.2 million people are in need of food aid, including 8.4 million threatened by severe hunger. A high-ranking UN aid official recently warned against the “catastrophic” living conditions in Yemen, stating that there was a growing risk of famine and cholera there.