Time : Monday, April 16, 2018 News ID: 437212 Hujjat al-Islam Ahmad Qabalan: Attack on Syria was funded by Arab leaders Rasa – The Friday prayer leader of Lebanon’s Borj el-Barajneh noted that the aggression against Syria was funded by pro-Zionist Arab leaders in the face of the silence of the United Nations. 
RNA – In a statement issued, Hujjat al-Islam Ahmad Qabalan, the Friday prayer leader of the Beirut suburb of Borj el-Barajneh, responded to the missile attack by three Western states – the United States, the United Kingdom and France – against Syria on the morning of April 14th. 
In his statement, the Lebanese Shi’ah cleric said, “We strongly condemn this blatant aggression by the trio of evil – namely, the United States, the United Kingdom and France – which received financial and logistical support from some Arab leaders allied with the Zionists.” 
Hujjat al-Islam Qabalan stressed that the attack was carried out under the cover of the United Nations and its Security Council and said, “Once again, we reaffirm our support for and stance alongside the Syrian people and we also announce that we will stand alongside them in this war of pride and dignity.” 
He says, “I tell all claimants of the Arab race that there is doubt about you being Arab and rather this claim is false because it’s impossible that those who accompany the United States and Israel and serve in Washington and Tel Aviv are Arab or connected to the Arabs and they are the only servants and employees of the United States and the Zionist regime.” 
His Eminence said, “Syria, Iraq, Yemen, Lebanon, Palestine and those who accompany these countries are real Arabs and through divine grace, they will achieve victory over the enemies by supporting the Islamic Resistance Front.” 
In the early hours of Saturday, the United States, the United Kingdom and France launched a barrage of missile attacks against Syria in response to what they claimed to be a chemical attack in the militant-held town of Douma in Eastern Ghoutah region on April 7. Syria said it had intercepted most of the missiles. 
The strikes hit three sites – one in the Syrian capital, Damascus, and two in the city of Homs – which President Donald Trump claimed were “associated with the chemical weapon capabilities” of the Syrian government. 
Despite the 103 cruise missiles fire against the war-torn Arab country, with the vigilance of the security forces and the Syrian resistance, the enemies could not achieve their sinister goals. 
112/976