  437233 US Bombs Damascus to Prevent Iran, Syria, Russia, Hezbollah from Racking Up a Win Rasa - On Saturday, the United Nations Security Council failed to adopt Russia’s draft resolution condemning the recent joint airstrikes by the US, Britain and France on Syria, which came following an alleged chemical weapons attack on Douma. RNA - The resolution was rejected at an emergency meeting of the Security Council that was convened at Moscow’s request, with three votes in favor, eight votes against and four abstentions. The draft resolution condemned the military action against Syria and called on the three Western countries to "halt the aggression against the Syrian Arab Republic immediately and without any delay" and refrain from further use-of-force actions in violation of the UN Charter. By now, it should be clear that the US is deliberately aggravating the humanitarian crisis in Syria, and derailing any talks that could actually restore peace and security. Instead, it is aggravating sufferings to civilians and actually conniving at terrorists who were defeated by the allied forces of Iran, Syria, Russia and Hezbollah. Perhaps, the principal goal for the US is to prevent peace and prosperity from breaking out in post-ISIL Syria whose government is unfriendly to Washington. Perhaps, that also says why foreign policy experts and global leaders continue to denounce the missile strikes ordered by President Donald Trump Saturday morning. They are also troubled to hear at the Security Council from US Ambassador to the UN Nikki Haley that “the US is prepared to attack the war-torn country again.” This is while the airstrikes amounted to aggression against a sovereign state without allowing the UN’s Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to investigate the suspected poison gas attack. Nor is that all: The international civil society wants to see the seven devastating years of war in Syria wind down, and give the war-torn nation the much needed chance to begin rebuilding. The world supports peace and wants to see Syria reunited, its economy start to function again, and a measure of political stability to return. None of that, however, is likely to happen because American military and security planners are determined to prevent it. The specter of a peaceful and prosperous Syria terrifies Washington and its duped allies. It is also in Israel’s interest to keep Syria divided, unstable and impoverished. From Tel Aviv’s perspective, peace in Syria is the horror scenario. Peace would mean what Israel sees as a win for its enemies: Iran, Syria and Hezbollah. Together with the United States and Saudi Arabia, the warmongers in Tel Aviv are determined to prevent that, regardless of the human cost and International Law. The warmongers know fully well that the elected governments of Iran, Syria, Iraq, and Lebanon are on good terms, and the new partnership among them – which proved successful in the war against Daesh (ISIL or ISIS) and Al-Qaeda - could also lay the foundation for a new Middle East, which would not be submissive to the American-Israeli-Saudi coalition. For that reason, the warmongers attacked Syria on Saturday morning, determined to prevent it from emerging – and to prevent Iran, Syria, Russia and Hezbollah from racking up a win. At any rate, the United States wants a war now, and it’s not just talk. The strikes proved beyond any doubt that the hypocrites in Washington have chosen war over diplomacy and International Law. And if Trump at times says “let’s wait”, that’s because he wants to get France and Britain on board as well – and certainly not because he is waiting for information from UN chemical-weapons inspectors in Douma. According to Fars News Agancy, the fact is that the US is already at war in Syria, and has been since day one. There are at least 2,000 US troops already on the ground, and the US, working with its terror proxies, Israel and Saudi Arabia, has been conducting air and drone attacks against pro-Syrian government forces on an almost daily basis. The regime change war has already killed plenty of Syrian civilians. According to the British monitoring group Airwars, US and US-backed coalition air and artillery strikes have killed between 3,940 and 5,937 Syrian civilians, maybe more, since August 2014. As per International Law and UN Charter, however, there is no legal justification for the current US troop presence in Syria, let alone additional air strikes that Ambassador Haley says are coming. Equally important, these unlawful strikes would do nothing to provide real justice or protection for the victims of America’s open-ended war. Post-ISIL Syria needs peace, not war.