دسته: نرم افزار » کاربردی » بازیابی اطلاعات حافظه های فلش USB و کارت های حافظه ی SD از جمله ابزار های ذخیره سازی اطلاعات هستند که به خاطر اندازه کوچک و قابل حمل بودن، امروزه به طور گسترده ای در بین کاربران مورد استفاده قرار گرفته اند. اما در این بین مشکلات مختلفی چون حذف‌ تصادفی اطلاعات یا آسیب های سخت افزاری و ... م مک ن است موجب فرمت شدن و از دست رفتن اطلاعات کاربر شود. اما با کمک نرم افزار قدرتمند iCare SD Memory Card Recovery دیگر نگران از دست رفتن کامل و همیشگی اطلاعات خو نباشید. این نرم افزار با اسکن کامل، قادر به بازی ابی تمام فایل هایی خواهد بود که به دلایل مختلف از روی کارت حافظه یا فلش مموری شما حذف شده اند. iCare SD Memory Card Recovery از انواع کارت های حافظه اس دی دوربین، موبایل و ... پشتیبانی می کند. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نرم افزار iCare SD Memory Card Recovery: - بازی ابی اطلاعات از کارت‌های حافظه و فلش مموری- ارائه دو روش اسکن سریع و سطحی یا عمیق حافظه‌ها- ارائه پیش نمایشی از فایل های بازیابی شده- پشتیبانی از حافظه‌های Mobile/Camera SD Memory Card, MicroSD/tf, xd, CF Card, SDXC- سازگاری با فایل‌ سیستم‌های RAW, FAT32, FAT16, FAT12, NTFS5, NTFS, exFat- پشتیبانی از انواع کارت های حافظه‌ Sandisk, Samsung, Kingston, Silicon Power, Beeway, Generic, PNY, Transcend- ا مک ان بازیابی اطلاعات فرمت شده و یا حذف شده- و ... 
You can easily lose files on a variety of storage devices, and it doesn’t have to be your fault entirely. Drives can become corrupt, or items may have been deleted by mistake. Regardless of the case, iCare SD Memory Card Recovery can help you bring them back from damaged USB flash drives and SD memory cards. 
Surface and deep scan to use The main window of the application lets you select the scan method to use. If you know for sure you just deleted a bunch of files among which is the one of interest, you can rely on the deleted file recovery mode for a quick scan. On the other hand, the deep scan recovery can be used to thoroughly look up data in all sectors.Needless to say that the first method is faster, but doesn’t work for all files, especially if the drive got formatted in the meantime. After a scan operation the application displays an organized navigator. On one side you find the folder tree list for comfortable navigation, while the second panel is where files are shown with details or as thumbnails. Select files to save and the destination There’s also the possibility to search for a particular file with the built-in functions. If you’re not sure by name, the application offers a file viewer which is fitted with features to display text content, HEX code, as well as a preview if possible.The last step of the operation is to choose a save location for selected files. A tree list is put at your disposal for selection of a folder, but you can also paste the path in the dedicated field. It’s highly recommended to use a different drive. The application issues a warning when attempting to save to the same drive. In conclusion Taking everything into consideration, we can state that iCare SD Memory Card Recovery is sure to come in handy if you can’t access files on your SD card or USB flash drive or you just accidentally deleted files you need. It also comes with an in-depth scan operation for file lost during a format operation. Memory card recovery When: Formatted card by mistake/intentionally, card asking for reformatting, Not format error, data become inaccessible after format, virus removed files, deleted photo/video on phone/camera, wiped out phone/card, etc. Device Supported: Mobile/Camera SD Memory Card, MicroSD/tf, xd, CF Card, SDXC, etc. File Systems Supported: RAW, FAT32, FAT16, FAT12, NTFS5, NTFS, exFat Recover data from All kinds of memory card eg: Sandisk, Samsung, Kingston, Silicon Power, Beeway, Generic, PNY, Transcend… More info (open/close) 
OS: Windows 10, Windows 8 / 8.1, Windows 7 مشخصات