دسته: نرم افزار » امنیتی » کنترل دسترسی , امنیتی » نظارت و کنترل HomeGuard نرم افزار ی پیشرفته برای مراقبت و مانیتورینگ عالی استفاده اعضای خانواده از کامپیوتر می باشد. این نرم افزار قادر است تا فعالیت های اینترنت ی و غیر اینترنتی هر شخصی که با کامپیوتر کار می کند را ذخیره کند. همینطور می توانید بطور مشخص بعضی از موضوع ها و یا سایت های خاص را از دسترس خارج کنید. این نرم افزار قادر است تا از تمام فعالیت ها عکس تهیه کند و یا حتی چت های افراد را نیز ذخیره کند. همینطور برای جلوگیری از اتلاف وقت با بازی ها و یا برنامه های بدون فایده می توانید جلوی اجرا شدن آنها را به راحتی بگیرید. شما با استفاده از این نرم افزار می توانید بر روی استفاده از هر برنامه ای که بخواهید، محدودیت ایجاد کنید و حتی نرم افزار می تواند شما را از مدت زمان اجرای برنامه ها توسط اعضای خانواده مطلع سازد. به این ترتیب والدین می توانند به طور کامل بر روی فرزندان خود و استفاده آنها از کامپیوتر نظارت داشته باشند. 
قابلیت های کلیدی نر افزار HomeGuard: - نظارت و مانیتورینگ عالی- گرفتن اسکرین شات از صفحه نمایش کامپیوتر در فواصل زمانی از پیش تعیین شده- نظارت بر دسترسی به وب سایت ها و ا مک ان مسدود کردن آن- نظارت بر جستجوی کلمات در موتور های جستجو- نظارت بر ایمیل و چت و امکان مسدود کردن آن- ایجاد محدودیت زمانی در استفاده از برنامه های کامپیوتر و اینترنت - امکان نظارت و جلوگیری از کپی کردن و حذف فایل ها- پاک شدن گزارشات ارائه شده، به صورت خودکار پس از مدت زمان تعیین شده توسط شما- نظارت بر استفاده از درایو های USB و دیسک های سخت خارجی - نظارت بر فایل های پرینت شده- و ... 
The HomeGuard application was developed to be a powerful tool that runs silently in the background recording what users do on the internet and offline. Every website visited, program started, chat message sent and received, keystrokes typed...etc will be recorded in addition to activity based screen shots displayed in gallery view for quickly flipping through many shots and full view for focusing on specific shots.It can also show warnings to users when blocking an activity and can send you notifications by Email when blocking. Plus individual programs usage time limiting and internet usage time limiting. HomeGuard is virtually impossible to tamper with, it is unclosable and uninstallable unless the administrative password (provided during installation) is used. 
Here are some key features of "HomeGuard": Keystrokes monitoring :- Record all keystrokes typed along with the program used and window title.Time and event based screen capture :- Take screenshots at predefined intervals and times of day and days of week. By default it will take screenshots every 10 minutes everyday but can be set to take shots as often as every 2 seconds. It can slo take shots when a website is visited, a keyword is found, a chat message or Email is sent or received, a program is tarted, a file is printed or blocked events only.Keyword based monitoring and blocking of online content:- Use the default list of keywords or add your own keywords, HomeGuard will record and/or block any internet traffic in which these keywords appear, be it Websites, Chat messages or Email. Keyword filtering cannot be circumvented through the use of proxy servers, all traffic is examined regardless of ports or destination, all while keeping the use of CPU and memory to a minimum through the use of advanced search and identification algorithms, thus adding very little to no overhead to computer and internet speed.Web sites monitoring and blocking:- Block access to websites in a predefined 'black' list. Or allow access only to sites in a 'white' list, blocking all other sites. Recorded details include time spent on each site and which program was used to visit the site. As in keyword filtering above, the use of proxy servers to defeat blocking is useless here.Web search monitoring and blocking :- View and/or block keywords searched for in search engines. Currently supports Google search, Yahoo and Bing (MSN).Email and chat monitoring and blocking:- Record full text of chat messages (Currently supported are Yahoo and MSN/Windows Live messengers) and Email (pop3/smtp). Or (optionally) block all Chat and Email traffic.Internet and computer usage time limiting:- Set the time of day and/or days of week at which the computer and internet can be used. Time limitations cannot be circumvented by changing system time, by default time changing is blocked for all users and you can define a list of users to allow to change time.Program usage time limiting and blocking:- Set the time at which each program can be used and for how long. Or completely block certain programs. This feature is designed with excessive/addictive gaming in mind. Blocking can't be circumvented by renaming the program, once a program is added to a blocking list its signature is computed and saved and it will be recognized no matter where it is on the hard disk or what its name is.Detailed program usage statistics:- Record total running time of programs and actual time spent on each program, how many words and characters typed and how many times the mouse was clicked in each program, total bytes sent and received by each program and more.Content based blocking :- This feature is rather radical but can prove useful...Blocks internet content by its type, for example you can bock all online video and flash other web page elements will still show (unless they were of blocked types too) but all videos will be blank. Use the built in list of types (includes: exe files, scripts, videos..) or add a custom (MIME) type.Connection monitoring and blocking :- For advanced users, allows monitoring and blocking of individual internet connections by port and IP addresses. Can be used to block certain internet protocols (e.g. Peer to peer file sharing.) Will also attempt to detect protocol type of the connection and will show detailed statistics of the connection's duration and bandwidth used.File monitoring and blocking :- Monitor and block copying, deleting and moving of files.Printer monitor :- Monitor printed files and/or block printing altogether.USB storage media monitoring and blocking :- Monitor and optionally block usage removable devices like USB thumb drives, external hard disks...etcUser and time specific monitoring :- Choose which users to monitor and at what times.Automatic clean up of old records :- By default records older than 30 days will be deleted auto. You can change this as needed or start a clean up at anytime. More info (open/close)