- طراحی ساختارهای وب سایت و فریم ها- طراحی Swimlanes- طراحی طرح های رابط کاربری برنامه (ui mockups)- طراحی لایه های شبکه کامپیوتری (از جمله شبکه های سیسکو)- طرح های بستری(طرح های ساختمان، پلن های خانه و ...)- طراحی مدل های فرایند تجاری - طراحی نقشه های ذهنی و نمودارهای طوفان مغزی- طراحی نمودار ون و نمودارهای تعیین شده- طراحی نمودار های جریان داده- طراحی نمودار های روند فرآیند- طراحی نمودار های گردش کار- طراحی نمودارهای Chevron و دایره ای- نمودار های تجزیه و تحلیل Swot- نمودار های مربوط به تصاویر علمی- طراحی نمودارها، الگوریتم ها، طرح ها- طراحی Planogram ها- طراحی نمودار های اطلاعاتی- و ... 
Grapholite is an all-in-one diagrams designer aimed to create all types of business graphics and technical drawings from simple drafts and sketches to complex professional looking documents.Despite the fact that app was designed with low-end tablet devices in mind it contains all features that can be expected from the mature state-of-the-art diagramming solutions like Visio: a rich set of built-in themes and styles, sophisticated connection auto-routing algorithms, dynamic snap grid and integrated spline editor. The unique “sketch” mode allows single-click styling of any figure as if it is sketched by hand.You can create basic shapes and connections very quickly thanks to the freehand drawing recognition. For complex drawings, there are hundreds of ready-to-use stencils on the toolbox that can be easily dragged to the canvas. Most of these stencils are not just static images, but complex objects with plenty of properties setting up their appearance and behavior in the designer.Application was developed to take advantage of the entire set of devices from powerful workstations and top ultrabooks to hybrids and smallest tablets. It provides great user experience with all types of inputs – touch and pen, mouse and keyboard without sacrificing any editing capabilities of the desktop software.You can start working on a diagram in the field using only touch and pen and finish the document in the office in the most comfortable environment with the help of habitual mouse and keyboard. On hybrid devices and productivity tablets such as Microsoft Surface you even won’t need to restart the application!The app provides a unique set of shape behaviors for each diagram type. For example, windows and doors will automatically connect to walls in floor plans; shapes support automatic layout of children and collapsing\expanding of the hierarchy levels in org charts and mind maps. Connections auto-routing logic also depends on the diagram type.Objects tree pane allows you to inspect, select, lock and hide all visual objects.Print, share, export your diagrams and insert them in your web-sites, blog posts, publications, articles, documents, spreadsheets, presentations and other media.Grapholite supports export to Pdf, Png, Jpeg, Svg and Microsoft Visio (Vdx) formats. You can also import Microsoft Visio files from both Vdx and Vsdx (Visio 2013) formats. 
Grapholite can be used for: - Flow charts;