- Google Play store یکپارچه سازی شده- پشتیبانی از دستگاه های ورودی و خروجی و گیم پدها- سفارشی سازی CPU/RAM- و ... 
Nox App Player is a mobile operating system emulator that allows users to create an Android environment directly on their desktop computers. A complete Android experience With the help of this program, users can enjoy a full Android experience on their personal computers. The emulator's interface looks similar in all respects to that of real Android devices, and users can even switch to a touch input method, to mimic the Android experience entirely.Similar to other Android Emulator, Nox App Player is built on a custom virtual machine, but it is developed on Android 4.4.2 kernel. Higher compatibility is therefore deemed possible since many of the new games/apps are developed to keep up with higher Android version. The software adopts the UI of physical Android phones and tablets so upon start, there’s little need for learning as long as you know how to operate a physical smartphone. 
Google Play Store is a must have for android phones as well as for android emulators. With it integrated upon installation, users simply download an app of their choice and experience the smooth running. Nox App Player runs smoothly on Windows 10 computers. Considering that Windows 10 was just released at on 29th July, this is really a fast move. It shows the Nox develop team’s efficiency and tested developing abilityKeyboard typing, camera and microphone integration are basic functions of Nox App Player. What made using Nox App Player special is that you can connect gamepad and controllers in a game.The multiplayer mode is an innovative feature which makes it possible for users to run several Nox App Player window at the same time.To enhance the multiplayer mode and to bring the fun to people who only have limited budget PCs, the function that allows users to customize the CPU occupation and RAM of each Nox App Player was introduced. Here are some key features of " Nox App Player": - Developed on Android 4.4.2 kernel- Google Play store integrated- Support input/output devices, gamepad and controller- Multiplayer mode which can be activated with ease- Customize CPU/RAM occupation and resolution More info (open/close) 
- Windows XP(32) SP3/Windows Vista/Windows 7/Windows 8/Windows 10- AMD or Intel CPU - with Virtualization Technology support preferred- At least 512MB RAM- GPU with OpenGL 2.0+ support- At least 1GB of free disk space under installation path (for saving the data of the apps you may install) and 300MB under system disk مشخصات