Experts, industrialists laud African trade pact In Summary 
According to them, the pact will provide the private sector with a chance of expanding businesses beyond the current limited borders. Advertisement By Mosenda Jacob @The CitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. Economists and members of the business community have hailed the recently signed African Continental Free Trade Area (AfCFTA). 
According to them, the pact will provide the private sector with a chance of expanding businesses beyond the current limited borders. 
African leaders, who gathered in Kigali, Rwanda last week, put pen-to-paper on the agreement that seeks to set up a vast free-trade area to improve regional integration and boost economic growth across the continent. 
Prime minister Kassim Majaliwa represented President John Magufuli at the event where 44 of the Africa Union’s (AU) 55 members signed the deal. 
Reacting to the event, the chairman for CEOs Roundtable (CEOrt), Mr Ali Mufuruki said the signing was long overdue. 
“This is one of the most important events to have ever happened on the continent since independence. The agreement will open more business opportunities,” he said. 
Mr Mufuruki added that the move will enhance labour movement while at the same time allowing businesses to grow. 
“This move will allow businesses to grow since markets will be available. It will help improve our companies’ competitiveness…The cost of trading will also go down, which means economies will grow,” he said. Dr Machera Johnson from the College of Business Education (CBE) said: “This promise of free trade and free movement is good news for Tanzanians because it has come at the time when we are venturing into industrialisation. This is a big opportunity for both markets and employment. 
“If the trade agreement is going to be implemented by 2022, we will be among those who will reap big considering that we have plentiful resources,” he added. 
Mr Thomas Macha, an economics consultant in Dar es Salaam said: “Since independence political issues have been given priority, but now economic issues are taking over. I encourage local entrepreneurs and graduates to be competitive so that we can benefit from the pact.” 
The parliament and all stakeholders who are going to review the agreement should do so by putting the country’s interests first, he said. 
The agreement commits governments to remove tariffs on 90 per cent of goods produced within the continent and phase out the rest over time. advertisement