Monday, March 26, 2018 ELCT Archbishop condemns divisive actions Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT), Dr Fredrick Shoo, delivers a sermon during the Palm Sunday service at Masana in Hai district. The Bishop also read a proclamation on the state of the nation which the church released recently.PHOTO | DIONIS NYATO In Summary 
In the Easter message – which was signed by 27 ELCT bishops, and which came after fasting and prayers from leaders of ELCT churches – Dr Shoo said ELCT will not remain silent, and will in fact comment on anything happening in this country that’s “against the will of God.” Advertisement By Ibrahim Yamola @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam/Hai. Archbishop Fredrick Shoo of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) has called on Christians and Tanzanians in general to objectively go through the church’s recently-issued Easter message, warning politicians against dividing Tanzanians. 
In the Easter message – which was signed by 27 ELCT bishops, and which came after fasting and prayers from leaders of ELCT churches – Dr Shoo said ELCT will not remain silent, and will in fact comment on anything happening in this country that’s “against the will of God.” 
Speaking to the Masama-Kati congregation in Hai District, Kilimanjaro Region, during prayers on Sunday, Dr Shoo – who is also the Bishop of ECLT’s North Diocese – said, “When we were fasting, we asked God to give us a special message which would help the nation. So, we can’t remain silent when there’s something that needs to be communicated to our believers and the nation as whole.” 
In that regard, he confirmed that the ELCT Easter message has the same issues that were addressed in the recent message by Tanzania Episcopal Conference (TEC). 
“What I’d like to ask Tanzanians and Christians in particular is that they should receive this message in a cordial manner. They should listen to it, think about it, take it to heart – and praise the Lord God for giving us eyes and the soul to know what He is telling us about our country,” Dr Shoo said. 
“We should put aside our ideological differences and ask God what He’d like to tell us about our beloved country Tanzania,” he said, noting that religious leaders must always respect God, and act in recognition of their God-given ability. 
“We do what we are doing because we love our country Tanzania, so God help us,” Dr Shoo said – taking the opportunity to call upon certain politicians and political parties to stop dividing Tanzanians. 
“The country belongs to each of us, and to all of us – and any efforts to divide Tanzanians must be strongly condemned at any cost,” he stressed. Related Stories