26 killed in collision of minibus and lorry In Summary 
Eyewitnesses said the minibus was travelling to Mkuranga from Mbagala, Dar es Salaam, when it collided head-on with the lorry, which was carrying salt Advertisement By Julieth Ngarabali @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Mkuranga. At least 26 people died and ten were injured when a lorry collided with a minibus in Mkuranga District on Saturday evening. 
Eyewitnesses said the minibus was travelling to Mkuranga from Mbagala, Dar es Salaam, when it collided head-on with the lorry, which was carrying salt 
“The minibus was grossly overloaded...it seems several passengers were standing in the vehicle, given the number of those killed,” said Mr Sudi Saleni, who was among the first people to arrive at the crash scene. 
Coast Regional Commissioner Evarist Ndikilo yesterday visited Mkuranga District Hospital to console families which lost their loved ones in the crash. 
He directed police to thoroughly investigate the cause of the accident and take appropriate action. 
The medical officer in-charge of Mkuranga District Hospital, Dr Stephen Mwandambo, said the hospital had received 25 bodies, of which 15 had been identified by 5pm yesterday. 
Ten people who were injured in the accident were also taken to the district hospital, but were later transferred to Muhimbili National Hospital (MNH) in Dar es Salaam. One person died on the way to MNH, Dr Mwandambo said. 
The acting commander for the Kibiti Special Police Zone, Mr Mohamed Likwata, said the minibus was reduced to a mangled wreckage, indicating that both vehicles were travelling at high speed when they collided. The lorry and its trailer overturned into a ravine. “It’s a miracle that anybody survived the accident. When we arrived at the scene, there were 24 people who had died. They were 11 women, seven men and six children,” he said. 
Among those identified were the driver of the minibus, a Form One student at Saint Getrude Secondary School, a teacher employed by Rufiji District Council and a Standard One pupil at Tungi Primary School in Kigamboni, Dar es Salaam. 
President John Magufuli sent a message of condolences to Coast Regional Commissioner Evarist Ndikilo following the accident. 
“I have received with shock news of the loss of the lives of 26 people in an accident in Mkuranga, Coast Region. These were our fellow Tanzanians who were part of the country’s manpower,” a State House statement quoted Dr Magufuli saying. Related Stories