Wounded Stars out to stun Congo’s Leopards In Summary Stars assistant head coach, Hemed Morocco, said yesterday that they have put behind them the nightmare of the 4-1 drubbing they suffered at the hands of Algeria’s Atlas Lions in Algiers last week. Advertisement By By Majuto Omary @majutoy2k momary@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. Tanzania’s soccer standard will be subjected to yet another test today when the national soccer team, Taifa Stars, face DR Congo in an international friendly match. 
Stars assistant head coach, Hemed Morocco, said yesterday that they have put behind them the nightmare of the 4-1 drubbing they suffered at the hands of Algeria’s Atlas Lions in Algiers last week. 
“We will try to do our best and get a very positive result from this game. I think we still have to prove that the embarrassing defeat in the past was due to other circumstances,” said Morocco. 
“As a team, we have learnt from our mistakes and we should forget what happened against Algeria and try to get a good result,” he added. 
Morocco said his players know that they need nothing short of a win at the National Stadium this afternoon to appease disgruntled soccer fans. “Mentally we are ready and I do not think we should allow anything to frustrate us,” he said. But Stars will have to make do with the underdog tag against DR Congo, who made it to the quarter-finals of the African Cup of Nations in 2017 in Gabon. 
Glory period 
DR Congo, then Zaire, had its first international success at the 1968 African Cup of Nations held in Ethiopia, beating Ghana 1–0 in the final. 
The team’s biggest ever win came on 22 November 1969 when they recorded a 10–1 home victory against Zambia. 
Although a handful of Congolese players were playing in Europe (particularly Belgium), foreign-based players were seldom recalled for international duty. The second continental title for the Leopards came at the 1974 African Cup of Nations in Egypt. 
They recorded a 2–1 victory against Guinea, a similar win over Congo Brazzaville and a 4–1 victory against Mauritius. 
These results carried them through to the semi-finals, where they beat hosts Egypt 3–2. 
In the final, the DR Congo drew with Zambia 2–2. Therefore, the match was replayed two days later, where they (DR Congo) won the game 2–0. 
They were the first Sub-Saharan African team to participate in a Fifa World Cup, qualifying for the 1974 tournament. It remains to be seen if Stars will appease local soccer fans at the expense of the Leopards today. advertisement