Ban on Diamond Platnumz’ songs to remain In Summary Basata’s executive secretary, Mr Godfrey Mngereza told The Citizen on Wednesday, March 28, 2018, that the ban on Diamond Platnumz’s ‘ Waka Waka’ and ‘ Hallelujah’ songs was still on, calling upon the public to ignore claims that it (the ban) has been lifted. Advertisement By Nasra Abdallah @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
National Arts Council of Tanzania (Basata) has said it has not lifted a ban on some of the songs by pop star Diamond Platnumz as widely circulated on social media. 
Basata’s executive secretary, Mr Godfrey Mngereza told The Citizen on Wednesday, March 28, 2018, that the ban on Diamond Platnumz’s ‘ Waka Waka’ and ‘ Hallelujah’ songs was still on, calling upon the public to ignore claims that it (the ban) has been lifted. 
Mr Mngereza’s explanation comes in just hours after Diamond Platnumz met and held talks with the Minister for Information, Culture, Arts and Sports, Dr Harrison Mwakyembe and his deputy, Ms Juliana Shonza. 
The meeting prompted speculation that the government had lifted the February 28, 2018 ban on Diamond Platnumz’s two songs. 
According to Mr Mngereza, the meeting only sought to bring Diamond Platnumz and Ms Shonza to a roundtable after the two engaged in bitter exchanges on social media last week. 
During a recent interview on Times FM Radio, Diamond Platnumz claimed Ms Shonza was banning songs as a way of acquiring cheap popularity and avoid being seen as a non-performer by the President. 
But in response, Ms Shonza said she was only working for what was in the interest of the government. 
On February 28, the government through Basata banned 15 local songs on grounds that they were against the country’s social norms and values. 
Tanzania Communications Regulatory Authority (TCRA) announced the ban after receiving a list of the songs from the National Arts Council of Tanzania (Basata). 
Apart from Diamond Platnumz’s ‘ Hallelujah’ and ‘ Waka Waka’, other Bongo Flava songs that have been banned include: ‘ Pale Kati Patamu’ by Ney wa Mitego, ‘ Chura’ and ‘ Nimevurugwa’ by Snura, ‘ Hainaga Ushemeji’ by Manifongo, ‘ I’m Sorry JK’ by Nikki Mbishi, ‘ Kibamia’ by Roma Mkatoliki, ‘ Tema Mate Tumchape’ by Madee, ‘ Uzuri Wako’ by Jux, ‘ Nampa Papa’ by Gigy Money and ‘ Nampaga’ by Barnaba. advertisement