Former chief justice reappointed to UN job In Summary 
A UN statement released yesterday said Mr Justice Othman’s reappointment was in line with the UN’s General Assembly resolution 72/252. Advertisement By The Citizen Reporter @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. United Nations secretary-general António Guterres has reappointed former Chief Justice Mohammed Chande Othman to continue with his work in relation to the investigation into the tragic death of Dag Hammarskjöld in 1961. 
A UN statement released yesterday said Mr Justice Othman’s reappointment was in line with the UN’s General Assembly resolution 72/252. 
Dag Hammarskjöld was a Swedish diplomat, economist and author who served as the second UN secretary-general from April 1953 until his death in a plane crash on September 18, 1961. 
At that time, Hammarskjöld had learned about fighting between “non-combatant” UN forces and Moise Tshombe’s Katangese troops. He was en route to negotiate a ceasefire when his Douglas DC-6 airliner crashed near Ndola in Zambia (then Northern Rhodesia), killing him and all the 15 people accompanying him. 
The reasons behind the plane crash remain unclear, with some evidence showing that it might have been shot down. 
Mr Justice Othman is being reappointed after serving in the position in 2010. 
“It is recalled that the Secretary-General had previously appointed Chief Justice Othman as Eminent Person pursuant to General Assembly resolution 71/260,” the UN statement said. 
After working on the issue for the past two years, Mr Justice Othman and his team presented their findings to the UN secretary-general, forwarded them to the General Assembly in September 2017. 
The report concluded, among other things, that it remained plausible that an external attack or threat may have been the cause of the crash. 
Mr Guterres urged UN member states to actively assist Mr Justice Othman in the performance of his mandate. 
“In this respect, and as provided for in General Assembly resolution 72/252, the Secretary-General calls on Member States that may hold information relevant to the Dag Hammarskjöld investigation to appoint an independent and high-ranking official to conduct a dedicated internal review of their intelligence, security and defence archives to determine whether relevant information exists,” the UN said. 
Mr Guterres renewed his commitment to the matter, saying he owes it to Hammarskjöld, members of the party accompanying him and to their families to establish the truth. advertisement