Anti-fakes campaign to be a 24-hour undertaking: FCC In Summary The move is aimed at ensuring that effective market supervision graduates into creating a favourable investment climate for local and foreign investors alike Advertisement By Gadiosa Lamtey @gadiosa2 glamtey@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. The Fair Competition Commission (FCC) has announced plans to strengthen anti-counterfeit inspection operations by working day and night at the country’s major entry points. 
Speaking to The Citizen on Monday, the acting director of Consumer Protection and Anti-Counterfeits, Ms Magdalena Utouh, said the move is to ensure effective market supervision graduates into creating a favorable investment climate that will attract both local and international investors to Tanzania. The commission says in a report that between July 2016 and December 2017 it seized counterfeit goods worth Sh18.67 billion. 
“The efforts, which include stretching our inspection operations to 24 hours and 7 days a week, will improve investor confidence as we will be working more closely with brand owners, who are the legitimate owners of the registered brands trading in the country,” she pointed out. 
Ms Utouh pointed out that the effort is to ensure that consumers are aware of the effects of counterfeit goods as well as make producers, distributors and retailers more responsible. 
Speaking at the same interview, the head of the Anti-Counterfeit Department, Ms Zaytun Kikula, revealed they had stepped up anti-counterfeit inspections at the Dar port and associated Inland Container Depots (ICDs) aimed at containing the proliferation of counterfeits. 
Counterfeit goods force consumers into repetitive purchases as a result of short lifespan as they are produced at lower standards than genuine ones. They also scare away investors and lead to massive tax evasion due to being imported through illegal channels and sold without receipts. 
The commission has recently dealt with rising counterfeits in electrical equipment, corrugated roofing sheets, toothpastes, toothbrushes and water pumps. 
“We call upon investors with companies in Tanzania to ensure they register their brands with Brela in order to get legal protection. And whenever they get any information of people copying or illegally trading in their trademarks they should inform the Commission to act upon the matter expeditiously,” she appealed. 
According to her, the commission is currently constrained with inadequate staff. That notwithstanding, she said the commission is determined to implement its duties of investigating, inspecting and educating the business community and the general public on the negative effects of counterfeit goods. advertisement