= Thursday, March 29, 2018 WHAT OTHERS SAY: In Africa, the wise don’t let this genie out of the bottle 
Right now, the issues around Miguna are framed in legal and formal political terms. Advertisement 
The drama around opposition activist Miguna Miguna’s deportation to Canada, and the chaos around attempts to deport him a second time earlier in the week after court ordered that his passport be returned, has taken Kenya to an uncomfortable place other countries have been. 
It can learn a few things from their experience. 
Right now, the issues around Miguna are framed in legal and formal political terms. Did Miguna renounce his Kenyan citizenship when he became a Canadian? Can someone who is Kenyan by birth ever lose his citizenship whether or not she renounces it? And so forth. 
There are much bigger questions, though. One of them is how is a country changed when someone who was/is a citizen by either birth, naturalisation, or ancestry has to defend their citizenship? In Uganda, it was such a vexed subject, so the policy since President Yoweri Museveni came to power in 1986 has been to make citizenship a non-contentious issue. 
In the 1970s during the tragic rule of dictator Idi Amin, citizenship became a highly contested matter. Like Kenya, Uganda has a Nubian population, some of who came to the country in the late 19th century, and others in the early 20th century. 
The Nubian community was largely a pro-Amin constituency, and oppressed Ugandans, helpless and partly seeking to deflect and explain the “Amin phenomenon” as “un-Ugandan” pushed the view that Nubians were foreigners – Sudanese. However, the shame of the Amin years was also so deep that many Ugandans who had fled the country denied their very Ugandanness. They were Ghanaian, Zambian, Kenyan, anything but Ugandan. 
Some of the continent’s founding fathers, having seen nationalist activists and leaders who were fighting colonialism exiled to places like the Seychelles, were very uncomfortable with limited definitions of citizenship. They wrestled with this through concepts of “Negritude”, the self-affirmation of all black peoples, or pan-Africanism, the idea that Mother Africa is home to us all, even all peoples outside Africa of African descent. 
And so, beginning with Kwame Nkrumah’s Ghana, and Leopold Senghor’s Senegal, all the black peoples whose parents were taken away as slaves were entitled to citizenship. In Tanzania, in the early 1970s Julius Nyerere was so discomfited with long-term refugees in the country, he granted all of them citizenship. 
What they feared played out in Uganda in 1979 when Amin was ousted by a combined force of the Tanzanian army and Ugandan exiles. It’s a sad chapter of Ugandan history you won’t hear about much anymore. In the eastern part of the country there was a little colourful, largely Nubian town called Bukedea. The local people and rogue elements of the liberators wiped out most of the Nubian population, and burnt it to the ground. 
When Museveni took to the bush in 1981, part of the narrative to deligitimise him was that he and his rebels were not Ugandans, but Rwandans and Burundians, and therefore their war was an alien invasion. It poisoned politics badly. 
The Uganda constitution sought to introduce a Pan-African construction by going beyond birth, to residence. If a people, or your forefathers, lived in Uganda before independence, then they and you are Ugandan. In practice, to this day Local Councils (LC) – the equivalent of wards in Kenya – are still based on residence. If an American, Chinese, Kenyan, Nigerian lives in a ward, he can stand for office in the LC. 
The other thing is that even rebels – and there have been many who have fought the Museveni government – when they apply for passports, they will get them. In fact, a rebel’s passport was likely to be processed faster than a law-abiding citizen’s. The only rebels who didn’t get their passports were those who didn’t apply. 
And passports might be seized, but they cannot be withdrawn. 
A lot of these things, though they have not universally succeeded in depoliticising citizenship, have nevertheless partly entrenched the idea that Ugandan citizenship is not negotiable. Certainly, citizenship is little debated these days. 
It might return in future, and it will probably be ugly when it does. Which all confirms that when it comes to citizenship in Africa, the best approach is a very liberal – and even cowardly – one that is so broad, it makes the subject just go away. In today’s world, it means keeping it if off the headlines. The wise elders would say, precisely because your mother is naked, don’t look. advertisement