Miguna Miguna taken ill and hospitalised in Dubai, UAE 
He is receiving treatment at the Sheikh Rashid Hospital in the United Arab Emirates capital. Advertisement 
Lawyer Miguna Miguna has been hospitalised in Dubai airport hospital after he complained of body pains. 
He is receiving treatment at the Sheikh Rashid Hospital in the United Arab Emirates capital. 

TESTS 
He said his body, especially the ribs, was hurting after being drugged, assaulted and dragged to a Dubai-bound flight. 

Photos shared on social media show the fiery lawyer wheel-chaired to a bed hospital at Dubai International Airport. 

In a statement, DrMiguna said he was granted access to a doctor after he refused to board a plane to London, citing his health condition. 

Medical tests, he said, confirmed that police officers injured him as they bundled him into the plane on Wednesday evening. 

"I have severe pain on the left side of my chest, my left wrist, my right elbow and my feet," he said. 

"I believe that the despots must have injected me with noxious substances." 

RETURN 
Additional toxicology tests, he said, would require exiting the airport, "which I can only do with my valid Kenyan passport - a document the despots illegality confiscated and destroyed in violation of Justice Kimaru’s order". 

In the clip shared from the airport, DrMiguna claims that he was brutalised. 

"This is an international airline and airport ... I know the rules ... I am following the rules ... I am sick... I am allowed to say if I am sick ... you cannot force me to walk if I cannot walk ..." Miguna is heard telling the airport officials 

At the airport, the self-declared 'general' of the National Resistance Movement (NRM) does not have his trademark hat on and appears tired. 

But the battle is far from over, the NRM 'general' says. 

"I have made it crystal clear to the United Arab Emirates immigration authorities that I cannot and will not fly anywhere with them except to Kenya," he said. 

"As I return to Kenya either today or tomorrow, I strongly encourage all patriotic Kenyans to remain firm, focused and fearless in the face of an outlaw, authoritarian and illegitimate regime..." advertisement