Code of Ethics to guide franchising In Summary Clause 4 unleashes the Code’s powers to deal with contraventions to it and the process of dispute resolution. It allows Exco, at its own discretion, to appoint a sub-committee with specific powers to determine any allegation by any person of non-compliance by any member with the provisions of this Code. Advertisement By Wambugu wa Gichohi 
In the absence of active franchise associations in East Africa the Franchise Association of South Africa-FASA-is the closest we can explore provisions of the Code of Ethics-with due acknowledgement herewith- to understand ethics binding franchise industry players and save prospective franchisees from unethical franchise practices. While membership to an association is voluntary, association members are bound by the Code, hence are more ethical than those who are not members of any. 
Clause 4 unleashes the Code’s powers to deal with contraventions to it and the process of dispute resolution. It allows Exco, at its own discretion, to appoint a sub-committee with specific powers to determine any allegation by any person of non-compliance by any member with the provisions of this Code. 
The said sub-committee determines whether such contravention has taken place, imposes fines to a contravening member, with such fines aligned to amounts determined by Exco from time to time. It may also order any member to take or refrain from any action or pay any amount of money as necessary to remedy any contravention of the Code committed by the member. 
It may summarily terminate any member whom it has found to have contravened the Code. Dispute resolution procedures include representation by attorneys, obtaining copies of relevant documents and presenting relevant evidence and cross-examining witnesses. 
The Code requires members to attempt to resolve complaints and disputes in good faith and through direct communication and negotiation. Failing such, all complaints, grievances and or disputes may be referred to FASA for mediation, subject to there being an express agreement between the parties. Absence of such express agreement does not, however, prevent FASA from taking immediate disciplinary or any other appropriate action against its members for non-compliance with the Code. 
Clause 5 vests with FASA powers to regularly amend the Code, amendments which become effective upon email communication to members and publication on FASA’s website. 
Clause 6 lays out members’ obligations, the do’s and don’ts, from legal/regulatory compliance (including full compliance to the Consumer Protection Act) to obligations not to offer goods or services in a manner likely to deceive or mislead prospective franchisees or purchasers of any such franchise, business, product or service. It prohibits members from using trademarks, trade names, slogans or other marks or identifications that are deceptively similar to those of another business or which is likely to mislead and/or deceive any member of the public as to the ownership, affiliation or nature of such member’s business or the nature or quality of any product or service offered by such member. 
Members are prohibited from engaging in pyramid or chain distribution schemes of any sort and from discriminating on the basis of race, color, religion, age, gender or disability, save when discriminating is necessary to give effect to national legislation of general application enacted to protect or advance persons or categories of persons previously disadvantaged by unfair discrimination. 
The writer is a franchise consultant helping indigenous East African brands to franchise, multinational brands to settle in the region and governmnents to create a franchise-friendly business environment advertisement