E-tax stamps laudable; but who should pay for system? Advertisement By Karl Lyimo 
The Tanzania Revenue Authority’s envisaged digital tax stamps systemfor excisable products sounds commendable – but, it’dbe counterproductive… 
The ‘Electronic Tax Stamps’ (ETS) is intended to replace the current paper stamps applied worldwide on cigarettes, alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages, medicinal drugs, playing cards, bottled water, cosmetics, hunting licences, firearms registration – and more! 
ETS have special security features that’re difficult to forge/duplicate. This makes them‘good promoters of lawful trade,’ as they arguably discourage influx of counterfeit goods in the market, protect domestic industries from unfair competition – and protect people from consuming unbranded, counterfeit products that pose health risks to consumers. 
Also, the system “enhances tax compliance by manufacturers as it tracks industrial production.” 
All the foregoing are ‘positives of the system’ for the taxman, taxpayer and the economy. Typically, businesses purchase tax stamps from the government and affix them to taxable items to ‘certify’ that tax and other statutory requirements have been complied with. But, TRA now requires installation of ETS devices onindustrialproduction lines. 
To that end, TRA unilaterally contracted a Swiss firm, ‘SICPA,’ in a tender that wasn’t competitive, to install and maintain/service the systemat a cost of $10.1 per 1,000 units, to be paid for by manufacturers. This’ll cost themaround Sh360bn annually: an additional cost that’s nearly a-half of what the manufacturers pay annually in excise duty, according to TRA data. 
SICPA describes itself as “a trusted global provider of security inks, secured identification, traceability and authentication solutions…” 
But, according to a press report titled ‘SICPA security system a big risk to Kenya’ published in Business Todayon Oct. 27, 2017, the company is involved in “a long trail of scandals in Kenya, Albania, Brazil, Morocco, Philippines and the USA…” So, here we’ve a scenario wherebyTRA unilaterally imposes a huge cost on domestic industries, forcing them to deal with a foreign firm with an unflattering record/history across the globe – including Kenya next-door! 
One industrialist who lucidly expounded upon the ‘Excisable Goods Management System’ (EGMS) is the Serengeti Breweries’ Managing Director, Ms Hellene Weesie. 
Addressing the 11th National Business Council meeting at State House in Dar on March 19, Ms Weesie said “industries’d suffer irreparable damage if the system is implemented as proposed.” 
This includes hiking consumer prices; reduced consumption and tax revenues; discouraging investors through minimized returns; cutting jobs; destabilizing President Magufuli’s industrialization drive, etc.[See ‘TRA production tracking system will hurt businesses,’ The Citizen: March 21, 2018]. 
The system’s commendable but for one thing: who pays for it! In My Book of Things, ETS is TRA’s tool to maximize tax collections and, as such, TRA should pay for that, NOT the taxpaying industries. 
“In principle,we (excise goods industry) have nothing against the system if it comes at zero-cost,”Ms Weesie said. “But, with its high costs, the industries’ll incur extra production costs…This’d not only adversely impact consumers, but also lead to significant fall in government revenue.” 
How true… President Magufuli saw the point made by the Serengeti Breweries MD. 
Calling upon TRA to be more taxpayer-friendly, minimize bullying and cut out corruption, Dr Magufuli directed TRA and the Finance Ministry “to address the business community’s concerns…” 
Well, over to you, TRA, Finance Minister… Cheers! advertisement