THINKING ALOUD: Sincere govt-private sector dialogue right way forward Professor Zulfiqarali Premji In Summary 
For that, Dr Magufuli should be commended – if only because the forum was ample testimony that ours is a government that listens, complete with a president who appreciates private entrepreneurship. Advertisement 
The business forum held at the State House in Dar es Salaam on March 19, chaired by President John Magufuli, was well-attended by government officials, private businesses and other stakeholders. 
For that, Dr Magufuli should be commended – if only because the forum was ample testimony that ours is a government that listens, complete with a president who appreciates private entrepreneurship. 
Our only wish now is that Tanzanians will in due course be appraised of related developments by way of feeds-back – and that there will soon enough be other follow-up meetings to chart the best way forward. 
Indeed, the forum – and, hopefully, similar regularly held forums in the future – will embody heartfelt consultations among the parties, minus the distrust and misunderstandings that routinely undermine and otherwise sabotage genuine developmental efforts. 
It’s rare today to find a government that categorically denies or sidelines private sector contribution to socio-economic development. About 90 per cent of new jobs in the developing world are created by the private sector – half of them created by small and medium-size enterprises. 
Furthermore, policymakers have finally realized that they must access the deep knowledge and capabilities within the private sector to diagnose market failures and formulate the right policies to surmount them. 
On the other hand, the private sector needs a stable and transparent regulatory environment in which to operate. It doesn’t need more regulations, but BETTER regulations that protect investments. And, for all that, it needs a government that listens, understands – and acts in ways which ensure an enabling business environment that is sustainable. 
Building trust is hard work. Indeed, differences between public and private stakeholders do exist; but so, too, do commonalities. 
It never takes long for parties to realise that there’s a win-win scenario in a common ground for sustainable economic development leading to inclusive growth – thus spurring jobs creation and increased government revenues. 
Many participants at the March 19 business forum expressed concern about what they see as unfair practices by the Tanzania Revenue Authority (TRA); undue delays at border-crossing posts within the East African Community (EAC); inordinate bureaucracy; issues with Tanesco, TFDA, etc. 
It was, indeed, a blame game all-round. However, what was not openly raised was corruption per se. There was perceptible feeling that if corruption was raised, there would be mixed repercussions, including stigmatization. 
Some government institutions have always eyed investors as a cash cow, and there’s an unmentionable, unholy nexus or network which ensures tardiness that leads to malfeasance and misfeasance, including grand corruption. 
So, the failure by private sector players to directly raise the issue of corruption arguably means that they may be part of the nexus. 
Surely, President Magufuli should have been told in no uncertain terms that, despite his government’s concerted, praiseworthy efforts at fighting corruption, there is still a significant incidence of corruption which remains a major barrier to development – and, as such, his government has to robustly combat corruption, applying more sophisticated strategies, tactics. 
Another issue that I’m obliged to point out here as being praiseworthy is that top-echelon officials of the fifth-phase government of Dr Magufuli are tirelessly crisscrossing the country on “missions impossible” that were somewhat rare in the past. 
The vice president, prime minister, ministers, deputy ministers, parliamentary committee members, etc., are regularly on inspection tours of the country’s administrative regions and districts during which they unearth unethical practices, and also resolve development issues. 
I usually follow these visits closely, always finding solace in the way in which, for example, Premier Kassim Majaliwa sorts out complex issues in a no nonsense approach… such as when co-operative societies lose money due through dishonest leaders – and farmers denied their rightful earnings. 
Another woeful area is implementation of water projects funded by the government or donors. If they were efficiently implemented and managed, mothers, daughters and women in general wouldn’t have to struggle to find water. 
What surprises me is that the PM and ministers from head office can unravel unethical practices while local leaderships like regional and district commissioners see nothing, hear nothing and do nothing about the problems. We have out there gazillions of qualified, capable young folk who should replace under-or-non- performing RCs and DCs. 
I urge the government not to penalize lowly civil servants for underperforming, and should instead go for the top local leaders who are highly paid to supervise and unearth such malpractices. 
Finally, I earnestly commend the fifth-phase government for initiating socio-economic development via dialogue – and crisscrossing the country to unearth malpractices and thrash out seemingly endless problems. This will make a good case study for history and other academicians. advertisement