Wednesday, March 21, 2018 Pigeon peas ban hits local govt Farmers store bags of pigeon peas, until the worst is over. Prices are currently at a low ebb. PHOTO| FILE In Summary 
Investigations by The Citizen revealed that revenue generated through levies on the crop declined by up to 90 per cent last year compared to the past two season, affecting their ability to finance social services such as education, health, water. Advertisement By Joyce Joliga & Aika Kimaro @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Tunduru/Newala/Babati. A sharp fall in revenue collection has hit district councils and village governments in regions leading in the production of pigeon peas after India restricted importation of the pulse in August last year, The Citizen can report. 
Investigations by The Citizen revealed that revenue generated through levies on the crop declined by up to 90 per cent last year compared to the past two season, affecting their ability to finance social services such as education, health, water. 
Indian government through its ministry of Commerce and Industry issued a Trade Notice No 13 (2015-2020) in August last year restricting importation of pigeon peas from countries with which they do not have bilateral agreement on the crop, including Tanzania. 
The announcement caught many farmers and traders unprepared. Preparations like purchase of packaging materials, initial advance payments had been done and loans contracted. 
It is estimated that some 73,000 tonnes of pigeon peas may have not been harvested while 90,000 tonnes more are held by farmers in the hope that the market situation will normalise. 
India’s decision is also attributed to a possible oversupply in the world’s largest consumer and producer of pulses. 
The restriction has caused an abrupt and drastic fall in prices of pigeon peas to Sh100 a kilo from between Sh2,000 and Sh4,000 in the past two seasons. 
Revenue generated through crop cess from pigeon peas in Tunduru District Council, for instance, has plunged to Sh3 million in the 2017/18 season from Sh150 million in 2016. 
Acting District agriculture officer Hassan Simba told The Citizen that the situation has devastated not only farmers but also the local authority which is struggling to look for other sources of income to bridge the revenue gap. 
He says the target was to produce 9,000 tonnes last season that would roughly earn them Sh 155.9 million. “The collapse of the market has affected our revenue collections that we only collected Sh3 million from levies charged on pigeon peas,” he says. 
He says several farmers have abandoned the crop unharvested in the fields while others are holding thousands of tonnes in the hope prices will stabilise in near future. 
“It is so sad. Asian businessmen encouraged us to cultivate pigeon pea to the maximum on a promise they would buy the crop, now they are nowhere to be seen,” says Simba. 
Tunduru District Commissioner Juma Homera says the income decline would have been even worse if they would have banked on pigeon peas alone. 
The impact of the collapse of the Indian market is also evident in Nanyumbu District Council which collected only Sh5 million through crop charge on pigeon peas last year compared to Sh198 million during the 2016/2017 season. 
District Executive Officer Hamisi Dammbaya says the income of farmers and the district council has significantly declined after being force to sell the pulse at a throw away price of Sh200. 
“We have so much been affected by the lack of the market. We promoted the crop and encouraged people to cultivate, they responded positively but the lack of market is hurting us,” says the executive. 
As the case was in other councils, stable prices and reliable market for pigeon peas attracted Nanyumbu residents to maximise production last year. 
During 2015/16, the district targeted to collect Sh65 million from levies imposed on the sale of pigeon peas and managed to collect Sh66.4 million. 
In the 2016/2017 season they earned Sh95 million as the market continued to stabilize that they surpassed the target and collected Sh198.9 million. 
The trend, however, turned last season when they collected only Sh5 million as the freezing of the export market hit farmers. 
Mr Dammbaya believes only option to mitigate the problem is for the Cereals and Other Produce Board (CPB) to prioritise pigeon peas and do market intelligence to protect local producers. 
CPB acting director general, George Mboje told The Citizen that they are currently looking for markets beyond India. 
“We are consulting our embassies abroad to see where we can get market links. We don’t want to rely on the Indian market anymore,” he said. 
Newala District has also reported significant fall in revenue earned from pigeon peas business, affecting income of individuals and local authorities. 
District Executive Officer Mussa Chimae said revenue collected from crop cess levy from pigeon peas had fallen from Sh166.1 million in the 2015/2016 season to Sh31.6 million last season. 
“After seeing good prices in 2016, we emphasised the crop and encouraged farmers to increase production. We invested to support them with extension services using demonstrative farms and managed to increase production to 9,258 tonnes but there is no market,” he said. 
Babati District Executive Officer Hamisi Malinga said the fall in price of pigeon peas has negatively impacted on development projects. 
Last season, the local authority planned to collect Sh325 million from levies imposed on the sale of pigeon peas only to collect Sh55 million. 
Chilangala Councillor in Newala District, Mr Jamal Nandonde, says he encouraged villagers to increase production this year but the fall in price has affected revenue collection in the ward. 
“Some people borrowed funds from banks and other financial institutions, but they are unable to repay their loans,” he says. advertisement