Singida stun Yanga to cruise into FA Cup semis In Summary In a rainy Singida, the hosts stunned the Jangwani Street giants 4-2 on penalties at the Namfua Stadium to join teams that are through to the last four. Advertisement By Eliya Solomon @Thecitizentz 
Singida. Rejuvenated Singida United gave their fans an ideal Easter gift yesterday when they cruised into the semi-finals of the Azam Sports Federation Cup at the expense of Young Africans. 
In a rainy Singida, the hosts stunned the Jangwani Street giants 4-2 on penalties at the Namfua Stadium to join teams that are through to the last four. 
“Our target is to emerge new Azam Sports Federation Cup champions. It’s special. It’s important we win (the title),” Singida United coach, Hans van Pluijm said after the clash. 
The other teams that have booked places in the semi-finals are Morogoro’s Mtibwa Sugar, Stand United of Shinyanga and JKT Tanzania. 
Yanga’s elimination in the tournament also known as FA Cup came only a day after Azam FC went down 9-8 on penalties to Mtibwa Sugar in another quarter-final at Azam Complex on Saturday night. 
The FA Cup, which is now inching towards the home stretch, decides the country’s representatives in the Africa Confederation Cup. 
This means Yanga must retain their Mainland Premier League title if they are to compete in the Africa club competitions next year. 
Yanga tie on 46 points with their arch-rivals Simba in the Mainland Premier League table, but the latter are ahead on goal difference. Simba, who are gunning for their first league title in five years, have a match in hand over Yanga. 
Azam sit third in the league table with 44 points from 22 outings, while relegation haunted Majimaji are at the bottom of the 16-team league with only 16 points after as many matches. 
Simba last clinched the Mainland Premier League trophy in 2012. 
The Mainland Premier League champions represent the country in CAF Champions League. 
The match between Yanga and Singida stretched into penalty shootouts after the normal 90 minutes had ended in a 1-1 draw. advertisement