How son of Tanzanian killed in UK tried to save mother In Summary Ms Mtumwa, who was killed by his husband identified as Kemi Kasambula (38) following a misunderstanding whose details have not yet been disclosed. Advertisement By Mussa Juma @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Arusha. Son of Leyla Mtumwa (36), a Tanzanian who was recently stabbed to death in the United Kingdom identified by only the name of Tyrese (12) has said he struggled in vain to save the life of his mother. 
Ms Mtumwa, who was killed by his husband identified as Kemi Kasambula (38) following a misunderstanding whose details have not yet been disclosed. 
Speaking with The Citizen, the deceased’s brother, Mr Abdilkarim Mtumwa said Tyrese was present during his parents’ fight at Haringey Avenue, N17 London, but he failed to intervene. “After seeing things were getting worse, Tyrese called the homicide and major crime police command,” Mr Mtumwa said. 
“Until he left the house, her mother was not yet been stabbed, but when police arrived at the scene, they found her already dead,” he said. 
He said when the police arrived at the scene, Mr Kasambula was still present, but unconscious. He was later taken to hospital. However, reports say Mr Kasambula was not Tyrese’s biological father. 
Reports also have it that the couple married early last year and Mr Kasambula was the one who last December took Ms Mtumwa from Tanzania to UK. Before leaving Tanzania, Ms Mtumwa used to work with Airtel Tanzania and Zantel where reports say she met Mr Kasambula. 
The family of the deceased said they are requesting for help to enable the body of their relative to be returned to Tanzania for burial. 
“We are waiting for more information from our uncle who is currently in the UK on what to do, but we have suggested that the body should be buried in Arusha,” he said. 
He said Ms Mtumwa was the first born out of five children of Ms Hidaya Mtumwa, who once featured in a song called “Hidaya” by Congolese musician Pepe Kale. 
The mother of the deceased said she spoke to her daughter a short time before her death. The daughter told her that she and her friends were preparing to return home before long. 
“She promised to call me later as she was boarding a taxi back home,” Ms Hidaya said. advertisement