Prelates preach peace, forgiveness and hope In Summary The messages were intended “to correct issues and maintain the solidarity and prosperity of the country and its people,” the prelates said. Advertisement By The Citizen Reporters @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. Forgiveness, avoiding suppression of people’s freedom of expression and unity among Tanzanians were some of the key Easter messages delivered yesterday by religious leaders from various Christian denominations in the country. 
The messages were intended “to correct issues and maintain the solidarity and prosperity of the country and its people,” the prelates said. 
Preaching at the Azania Front Church in Dar es Salaam, the Bishop of the Evangelical Lutheran Church in Tanzania (ELCT) for the Eastern and Coastal Diocese, Dr Alex Malasusa, called upon Tanzanians to sincerely embrace the spirit of forgiveness. “We are living in a world that is full of noises and other happenings. Open your ears and listen to what God has directed you to do. If the Holy Sprit speaks to you, go and testify to that message,” he said. 
According to him, human beings were not meant to live in sorrow, despair and discouragement – noting, however, that there were people on earth whose job was to frighten other people. Therefore, he counselled Christians to preach and stand for peace. 
In delivering his key Easter message at the Murugwanza Church in Ngara, the Anglican Bishop for Kagera Diocese, Darlington Bendankheha, urged government leaders to stop the growing tendency to silence his religious counterparts who criticise the government. 
He said religious leaders were now afraid to advise the government for fear that they would be reprimanded for doing so. 
According to him, Tanzania is today facing a number of security concerns, following mysterious disappearance of some people, abductions and arbitrary killings – noting that there were no encouraging reports from those mandated to ensure that Tanzanians live without fear. 
“Religious leaders are obliged to promote peace and, as such, they are duty-bound to show and criticise when signs of disruption of peace emerge … Although God is self-sufficient, He also uses angels, apostles and prophets. The government should cooperate with religious leaders,” he said. 
Calling for a national dialogue to resolve the disconcerting situation, Bishop Bendankheha said suppression of democracy and the freedom of speech is already causing great discomfiture for some people. 
Preaching at the Saint Joseph Cathedral, the Archbishop of Dar es Salaam Diocese, Polycarp Cardinal Pengo ,reminded Christians to abide by the teachings of Christ who stood firm in His belief from His crucifixion to His resurrection. 
“Regardless of the extent of torture, the extent of harassment, Christ stood by his faith. We are likewise supposed to stand by our faith – and always maintain it,” he said. 
Delivering his sermon at St Peter’s Cathedral, the Auxiliary Bishop of Dar es Salaam, Eusebius Nzigilwa, called upon Christians to refrain from the temptation to take revenge when offended. 
The Auxiliary Bishop of the Bukoba Catholic Archdiocese, Methodius Kilaini, urged the people in his area to build enough cooperation and solidarity as a tool towards transforming their economic lives. 
For his part, the Moravian Bishop of the South West Diocese, Dr Andenikisya Cheyo, called upon the government to disseminate civic education ahead the 2019 civil polls, instead of scaling up expenditure to purchase firearms. 
Reported by Aurea Simtowe, Shaban Ndyamukama, Ibrahim Yamola, Mosenda Jacob, Janet Muhizi and Ipyana Samson advertisement