In Summary The three-day meeting, which will be graced by the Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children minister, Ms Ummy Mwalimu comes against the backdrop of increasing cases of maternal deaths in Tanzania. Advertisement By Alfred Zacharia @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. More than 400 local and foreign maternal health experts converge in Dodoma this week for a meeting, which aims at finding lasting solution to the maternal deaths. 
The three-day meeting, which will be graced by the Health, Community Development, Gender, Elderly and Children minister, Ms Ummy Mwalimu comes against the backdrop of increasing cases of maternal deaths in Tanzania. 
Figures produced by the Tanzania Midwives Association (Tama) show that as of last year some 556 mothers died in 100,000 live births. 
This is an increase by 22.4 per cent death from 456 deaths recorded in the previous year, according to Tama. 
Maternal deaths is among the long term challenges in the country, which still claim the lives of pregnant women and children, according to Director of Nursing and Midwifery Services in the ministry of healthy, Mr Gustav Moyo. 
“There is a serious shortage of man power in the nursing and midwifery section, making it difficult to save lives of mothers and children,” he confirmed, 
He added that even medicine and medical tools are still impeding delivery of better maternal health services. 
He disclosed that there is a shortage of more than 75 per cent of the workforce. 
“For each midwife to take care of eight delivering mothers, we need to have at least 150,000 staff, but there are only 40,000 personnels,” he said. 
Mr Moyo said it is healthy if one midwife serves a single mother. 
He now harbours hope that the meeting will come up with a raft of resolutions that will help minimise or end maternal deaths. 
Tama General Secretary Dr Sebalda Leshabari said about 30 women die every day in Tanzania due to maternity related cases. 
“We understand the challenges, but I believe that this meeting will come up with better ways of of curbing these deaths,” she said. 
Dr Leshabari added that efforts have been made to save mothers and children’s lives, but things little has been achieved. 
According to her; in the year 2017, about 98 per cent of pregnant women attended various health centres for tests and advice. 
The number of mothers, who delivered in health centres, increased from 50 per cent in 2016 to 63 per cent last year. 
“Positively, there is a progressively decrease in children deaths, but the target is to achieve zero deaths,” she said. 
Tama’s statistics shows that deaths of children went down from 81 per cent to 67 per cent in the last five years. 
Statistics also indicate that infant mortality rate per 1,000 live births declined by one per cent from 26 per cent to 25, while the number of mothers with childbearing potential who use family planning methods increased from 27 per cent to 32 per cent. 
Meanwhile, the Nursing and Midwifery Council (TNMC) Registrar, Ms Lena Mfalila is convinced that the existing 110 colleges and universities that will help end the challenge of manpower. 
“At least 4000 to 4500 students are enrolled each year and we have 3500 to 4000 graduates annually,” she said believing once the government will start employing, the deficit will soon come down. advertisement