This is how graduates can market themselves In Summary Currently, there is an increasing number of colleges and universities that churn out a huge number of graduates in the job market compared to yesteryear where almost all university students were assured of jobs upon completion of their studies. Advertisement By Devotha John @TheCitizen news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Tanzania is among countries in the world which are struggling to develop. Likewise there are few industries and institutions with job vacancies for hapless churned out graduates in the job market. 
Currently, there is an increasing number of colleges and universities that churn out a huge number of graduates in the job market compared to yesteryear where almost all university students were assured of jobs upon completion of their studies. 
Based on the above facts, it is time graduates thought of making own jobs instead of waiting for employment opportunities because the government alongside private sectors have fewer jobs to absorb the huge number of job seekers. 
In the backdrop of the shrinking job outlets, entrepreneurship should be the way to go because the cutthroat competition for job vacancies will always leave graduates in dilemma. 
Of recent days, employers are not after the quality of Grade Pass average one scores at their universities. They are rather concerned with one’s technical knowhow. 
Speaking to Success, education experts opened up about the means which can salvage graduates in the Tanzania’s cutthroat job market. 
Richard Alphonce, a Human Resources Manager from Kotex Tanzania said Creativity can make graduates to earn something and earn their daily bread. This is because apart from less job vacancies, there is still strong competition once an institution announces job opportunities. 
There are so many examples that can justify that. For instance, in 2014, more than 20,000 people attended interview to seek a job in Tanzania Immigration Department. Out of the big number of applicants, over 10,000 were shortlisted to attend the final interview to compete for the 70 posts. “The number of graduates is increasing annually while the number of job vacancies is constant or decreasing “says Richard. 
But for being creative, you would be able to employ yourself and get the daily earning. So many people abroad have decided to employ themselves and are now offering employment opportunities to others. Apart from being creative, the graduates have to be flexible in looking for job. You can be a marketer, but due to scarcity of your profession in the labour market, you must be ready to work in other profession. 
Many people have opted to leave their professions and work for others. Currently, there are technicians who work as marketers, bankers who have changed to farming and doctors who work as journalists, computer specialists also shift to become businessmen and others. 
Flexibility also offers you a wide chance in daily activities and people get something to learn from you. 
However a University of Dar es Salaam lecturer Faraja Kristomus said the best ways that graduates can use to market themselves is to first volunteer in company, institution or organization where they feel comfortable to work. 
“Many employers these days ignore GPAs, they want graduates with soft skills. Unfortunately the soft skills are not highly instilled in the colleges, there they learn more theories and practices instead of skills needed in the labour market,” he says. 
By volunteering, they get to know better the requirements of the employers and the employer get to know their capacities and finally being able to recruit them. 
In addition to that, they can also get attached to a certain company or organisation where they can learn skills and improve their knowledge related to what they study at the college. 
He suggested that the universities should form partnership with potential employers so that during the studies, students attend field training or have part time attachment during evening hours or weekends. 
He said employers and educators can agree on university calendars so that the students can get enough time to practice in the industries, service industry and on other related job functions. 
On his part motivational speaker Elly David says the university students need to position themselves before anyone can be interested in helping them or lending a hand to them. 
“Morals should be highly considered. If one has bad morals, no employer will freely give them job opportunities, “he says. 
Other things is character because no one is going to employ a bad character no matter how educated you are for example, if you are a good accountant but have a record of theft no one will trust you with their office. 
Elly added that humility is one of the best ways to get into a person’s heart since pride will always separate you from your opportunity or anyone with the ability. 
Chief Executive Officer of the Consortium for Independent Education Providers in Sub-Saharan Africa,Benjamin Nkonya said graduates should not only market themselves because there is still a problem in our education system which is not practical oriented. 
“We want graduates who are competent and who are professional in order to be marketable but in our system there is no professionalism how then can they start to market themselves?” he queried adding that… 
“Our system is like robot because there is no practical skills, all the graduates learn theoretically so added technical education will make them better in the market,” he said. 
He says graduates should be innovative not only in using technology but they need to have more advantage for instance if one is studying agriculture through practical and theory to get ahead in the sector. 
“Here we have Vocational training Institutes whose curriculum should be synchronized with the university prospectus in a fresh bid to churn out graduates who are practical-oriented experts,” he says. 
Dr John lwata from Moshi Co-operative University (MoCU) said every graduate should believe that they were well prepared at universities to fit in whatever job vacancies come at their disposal, adding that it is time graduates believed that experience comes when one gets exposed in the world of work. 
“No one can be experienced without practising. I call upon graduates to desist from believing that some jobs are special for experienced ones. Employers should also be ready to groom people’s talents,” says the don. 
According to Mr Iwata, graduates should dare to come up with their own projects through which practice can make them perfect. He cites an example of a graduate who is a teacher by profession but may opt to establish his own tuition centre so as to practice teaching, a situation which could make them abreast with what they learned at universities. 
He calls upon graduates to attend some conferences to sharpen their skills. 
“It is worth remembering that conferences and workshops act as markets at which talents can be easily auctioned,” he says. advertisement