Villagers seek Magufuli’s intervention in land row President John Magufuli In Summary The villagers accused the church of grabbing their farm land. “The church has kicked us out of our ancestral land and given it to an investor,” lamented Mzee John Mwakanyamale, 107, who was speaking through an interpreter as he doesn’t know Kiswahili well. Advertisement By Citizen Reporter @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Rungwe. Ilolo villagers in Kiwira Ward in Rungwe District, Mbeya Region, have appealed to President John Magufuli to intervene to resolve a 25-year-old land crisis pitting them against the Moravian Church. 
The villagers accused the church of grabbing their farm land. “The church has kicked us out of our ancestral land and given it to an investor,” lamented Mzee John Mwakanyamale, 107, who was speaking through an interpreter as he doesn’t know Kiswahili well. 
But the Southern Diocese chairman of the Moravian Church, Rev Samwel Kabigi, denied the claim, insisting the church legally acquired the land in 1891. But the villagers maintain that the 1891 lease to the church expired in 1991 when the church was supposed to return the land but it has not done so. 
CCM Ilolo Village chairman Lackson Aman said in 1991 the church pretended to return the land but went behind their backs and obtained a permit from neighbouring Syukura Village, indicating that the church had a title deed to the same land. 
“The church holds six title deeds and all of them have been signed by Syukura Village leaders while the land is in Ilolo,” he said. 
But Rev Kabigi said it was true that three title deeds where the church and offices are built involve a piece of land in Ilolo while that leased to an investor is in Syukura Village. They seek President Magufuli’s intervention because they say directives by Lands Minister William Lukuvi and Prime Minister Kassim Majaliwa to regional and district leaders have not borne fruit. 
The Citizen has seen communication from the Prime Minister to Mbeya Regional Commissioner Amos Makalla to resolve the dispute. 
The letter was written in December last year. But nothing has been done, according to the villagers. 
They said they visited the district and regional commissioner offices several times to present their case but no there is no solution in sight. 
Efforts by The Citizen reporter to seek Rungwe District Commissioner Julius Chalya’s comment in his office in Tukuyu failed on Friday. 
His aide said he was in Dodoma and when he was contacted over phone he said he would call a press conference to announce what had been resolved on the land dispute. advertisement