Masogange found guilty of drug abuse In Summary She was ordered to pay a fine of Sh1.5 million or serve a jail term of two years after the Principal Resident Magistrate, Wilbard Mashauri, proved beyond reasonable doubt that Agness Masogange was indeed using narcotic drugs. The actress, who features in various music videos of Bongo Flava artistes, was first charged at the Kisutu Magistrate Court in last year facing two charges of using heroin Diacety and Oxazepam. After months of legal exchanges, the court finally found her guilty of using the mentioned drugs. In the first offence she was ordered to pay a Sh1 million fine or serve a two-year jail sentence while in the second offence, she was to pay a fine of Sh500,000 or serve a 12 month jail term. Advertisement By Paul Owere 
Dar es Salaam. Socialite and video vixen Agnes Gerald Waya, aka ‘Agnes Masogange’ was this week found guilty of drug abuse by a court in Dar es Salaam. 
She was ordered to pay a fine of Sh1.5 million or serve a jail term of two years after the Principal Resident Magistrate, Wilbard Mashauri, proved beyond reasonable doubt that Agness Masogange was indeed using narcotic drugs. The actress, who features in various music videos of Bongo Flava artistes, was first charged at the Kisutu Magistrate Court in last year facing two charges of using heroin Diacety and Oxazepam. After months of legal exchanges, the court finally found her guilty of using the mentioned drugs. In the first offence she was ordered to pay a Sh1 million fine or serve a two-year jail sentence while in the second offence, she was to pay a fine of Sh500,000 or serve a 12 month jail term. 
The terms were to go concurrently. In a related development he Kisutu Resident Magistrates’ has set April 23 as the date when it will decide whether former Miss Tanzania Wema Sepetu and co-accused have a case to answer or not. 
This was among the cases that came up after the Regional Commissioner Paul Makonda’s launched a campaign to crack down drug abuse and trafficking in the country. advertisement