Child abandonment shame desesrve urgent action In Summary The huge number of disgruntled women who showed up, prompting an extension of the exercise of listening to their grievances, was testimony to our decaying moral fabric as a people. For a country where the overwhelming majority subscribes to religious principles on morality, it is sad that adultery and fornication are increasingly becoming part of our daily lives Advertisement 
This week women flocked to the Dar es Salaam regional commissioner’s office, seeking legal redress after they were allegedly deserted, together with their children, by their partners. The regional commissioner has given the male “culprits” an opportunity to prove their innocence, failure to which their names will be made public. 
The huge number of disgruntled women who showed up, prompting an extension of the exercise of listening to their grievances, was testimony to our decaying moral fabric as a people. For a country where the overwhelming majority subscribes to religious principles on morality, it is sad that adultery and fornication are increasingly becoming part of our daily lives. 
At a time when many families are facing a multitude of economic challenges and the country’s social amenities stretched to the limit, it is almost criminal to continue churning out children whose future is doomed at conception. 
It is a shame that some of the people accused of deserting children are prominent members of society, including MPs and clerics, who have the financial capability of shouldering the cost of providing for children they bear out of wedlock, but choose not to. No wonder the country continues to witness a surge in the number of street children. 
The huge gathering of jilted mothers at the RC’s office should be a wake-up call for the country to strengthen child welfare institutions and ensure they are empowered to, not only track down deadbeat fathers, and by extension absentee parents, but also ensure that every minor’s right to basic needs such as food, shelter, clothing and education is safeguarded. Part of the responsibility of social welfare institutions should be to ensure that mothers are made aware of their rights and those of their children. 
It is also time the country came up with laws that address child abandonment and provide for youngsters already facing the ordeal. 
Improve hygiene in abattoirs 
Yesterday we carried a story from Uganda with the headline “Close dirty abattoir, town told”, which also mirrors the situation in Tanzania. Poor hygiene and sanitation are synonymous with most abattoirs in Tanzania. Levels of cleanliness at these key facilities, which are part of the food production chain, leave a lot to be desired. 
To prove this, one just needs to pay a brief visit to a nearby abattoir, and chances are that there will be a foul smell hanging over the place, filthy chambers, dirty water and swarms of flies. 
There is also likely to be a shortage of clean water, lack of control over who is allowed in and who is not, general chaos and poor dress codes for those working at the abattoir. 
As the government pushes for increased investment in the pharmaceutical industry, it is equally important to educate the masses on the importance of hygiene and sanitation. 
The relevant authorities should wake up and implement this responsibility that falls in their domains. They should ensure that there is improved hygiene in abattoirs. 
Prevention is better than cure, so the adage goes. More needs to be done to educate the people on environmental and personal hygiene if we are genuinely intent on fighting disease and its devastating effects on the nation. advertisement