Bank: Farmers to get Sh5bn loans In Summary The factory will produce 200,000 tonnes of sugar annually. It is funded by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and PPF Pensions Fund in an effort to speed up Tanzania’s industrialisation. Advertisement By Citizen Reporter @TheCitizenTZ news@tz.nationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. Azania Bank will issue loans totalling Sh5 billion to groups of sugar outgrowers for the Mkulazi sugar project in Kilosa, Morogoro. 
The factory will produce 200,000 tonnes of sugar annually. It is funded by the National Social Security Fund (NSSF) and PPF Pensions Fund in an effort to speed up Tanzania’s industrialisation. 
Azania Bank business development director Nyansaho Rhimo said in a statement here yesterday that the Sh5 billion loan facility was part of the bank’s support to President John Magufuli’s initiatives to widen economic opportunities from agriculture. 
Outgrower schemes, also known as contract farming, link networks of unorganised smallholder farmers with domestic and international buyers. 
The schemes provide benefits to players along the supply chain. 
According to Rhimo, the loan will be provided to Magole Joint Cooperative which has 115 groups and 1,200 members. 
“We will not be directly dishing out money to the groups. The loan shall cater for procurement of agricultural inputs and equipment depending on the needs of the smallholder farmers.” 
Launching a demonstration farm for sugarcane growers at Mkulazi in Morogoro at the weekend, the minister of State in the Prime Minister’s Office, (Policy, Parliamentary Affairs, Labour, Employment, Youth and the Disabled), Ms Jenista Mhagama, asked Azania Bank to provide agricultural inputs instead of money. 
She requested the bank’s management to provide similar chances to other groups including a 33-member group of youth who were united through the social media to form their company called KCL Company Limited. 
Mkulazi Holdings Company board chairman, Prof Godius Kahyarara, who doubles as the NSSF director general, and his PPF counterpart William Erio, asked more youth to join the groups. advertisement