Wednesday, March 21, 2018 Young Africans coach wary of Caf Cup rivals Young Africans players attend a training session ahead of their past Mainland Premier League match. The Jangwani Street giants will know their opponents in the last 32 in the Confederation Cup today when the Confederation of African Football (Caf) conducts the draw in Cairo, Egypt. PHOTO | FILE In Summary The Caf Inter-clubs committee, at its meeting in Cairo, Egypt yesterday, approved the procedure for the draw of the group phase of Caf Champions League and the last 32 round of the Confederation Cup. Advertisement By Khatimu Naheka and Agencies @thecitizentz news@tznationmedia.com 
Dar es Salaam. Mainland giants Young Africans will know their opponents in the Confederation Cup today when Caf conducts the draw for the last 32 round. 
The Caf Inter-clubs committee, at its meeting in Cairo, Egypt yesterday, approved the procedure for the draw of the group phase of Caf Champions League and the last 32 round of the Confederation Cup. 
The qualified teams were ranked according to their performances in the last five editions of the Caf inter-club competitions (2017, 2016, 2015, 2014 and 2013). 
For the Confederation Cup, based on the performance of the 32 teams according to the five-year ranking, four Pots were established. 
Four clubs relegated from the Champions League were seeded (Pot A), and top four ranked teams from the Confederation Cup (Pot B). 
The remaining 12 teams from the Caf Champions League were drawn into Pot C and the others from the Confederation Cup in Pot D. 
Pot A consists of Sudan’s El Hilal, Saint George of Ethiopia, DR Congo’s AS Vita and Zanaco of Zambia. 
Pot B comprises USM Alger (Algeria), Supersport (South Africa), Hilal Obied (Sudan) and Enyimba (Nigeria). 
Yanga are in Pot C together with ASEC Mimosas (Cote d’Ivoire), Mounana (Gabon), Williamsville (Cote d’Ivoire) and Aduana (Ghana). 
Also on the Pot are Gor Mahia (Kenya), UD Songo (Mozambique), MFM (Nigeria), Plateau (Nigeria), Rayon Sport (Rwanda), Generation Foot (Senegal) and Bidvest (South Africa) 
Pot D comprises CR Belouizdad (Algeria), La Mancha (Congo), CARA (Congo), El Masry (Egypt), Niefang (Equatorial Guinea), Wolaitta Dicha (Ethiopia), Fosa Junior (Madagascar), Djoliba (Mali), RS Berkane (Morocco), Raja Club Athletic (Morocco), Costa do Sol (Mozambique) and Akwa (Nigeria) 
Young Africans head coach George Lwandamina said yesterday they will be without three key players in the next round. 
He named them as striker Obrey Chirwa, midfielders Pappy Tshishimbi and Said Makapu. advertisement