Step sought to ensure doctors’ stay at upazilas Published on: 12:47   

Chairpersons of a number the parliamentary standing committees on different ministries on Sunday sought government steps to compel doctors to stay at their workplace at upazila-level hospitals. At a pre-budget discussion with finance minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith at National Economic Council auditorium, they alleged that most of the physicians were not staying at upazila health complexes ignoring the strong instructions of the government which was causing immense sufferings of people in the rural areas. Finance minister, however, disagreed with the allegation saying that a large number of physicians were now staying there. The allegations came at a time when several warnings issued by the government’s high-ups, including prime minister Sheikh Hasina, also failed to keep physicians at their workplace, particularly in remote areas. Hasina on December 29 asked the government physicians to stay at hospitals in the country’s remote areas or quit jobs. Earlier in August last year, health minister Mohammad Nasim said physical presence of doctors at their respective work places should be mandatory for ensuring health services to people. The debate started during the pre-budget discussion while parliamentary standing committee chairman on primary and mass education ministry Md Motahar Hossain demanded improvement of rural health service system. At this stage, Muhith, without giving Motahar a chance to end his speech, said that the existing rural health service was good enough. ‘You always allege that doctors don’t stay at villages. But adequate number of doctors now stay there,’ he claimed, a bit angrily. Then, some members of the parliament as well as chairpersons of parliamentary standing committees on different ministries including Motahar raised their voices protesting at finance minister’s statement. Later, Simeen Hussain Rimi, chairperson of the standing committee on cultural affairs ministry, said it was a reality that doctors did not stay at upazilas. ‘Only two specialised doctors are now staying at Kapasia upazila health complex located at my constituency in Gazipur though at least 10 doctors are supposed to be there,’ she said. ‘I am saying clearly and openly that doctors don’t stay at their workplace. They stay in Dhaka either in the name of study or Swadhinata Chikitsak Parishad,’ she said. Shawdhinata Chikitsak Parishad or Swachip is a professional body of pro-Awami League physicians. At the meeting, chairpersons of parliamentary standing committee on ministries of the environment and forests, power, energy and mineral resources, fisheries and livestock, defence, railway, youth and sport and some other ministries were present at the programme. Recent Updates