Leave a comment 

We have been informed by the Education Minister that coaching centres are illegal. He has also acknowledged his failure in having these coaching centres shut down. The two points the minister makes call for a response. And ours at this newspaper is, first, to welcome his view that these centres are illegal. There is little question that any coaching centre which arrogates to itself the right to commandeer the responsibilities of a proper school should be severely taken to task. But that has not happened despite all the protests and criticisms which have been made of the coaching centres in the last few years. These centres are not only a sad commentary on the nature of education provided to the young at schools but are also an open challenge to the authorities in that they operate in defiance of existing rules. 

All of this brings us to Nurul Islam Nahid’s admission of failure where ordering and implementing a shutdown of coaching centres is concerned. Indeed, with judicial moves already in place regarding the illegality of coaching centres, it is hard to understand the inability of the authorities to have the coaching centres abide by rules. There is here a clear instance of government failure to rein in these centres and the people behind them, which by itself is an embarrassment. If the individuals running the coaching centres are more powerful than the ministry of education, it surely does not place the government in good light. The minister has been graceful in acknowledging his failure in this area. But is that enough? 

We have been stressing for a long time the need for action against coaching centres. Our reasons have been without complications. These centres are fundamentally organizations that are solely interested in making money for their owners. In other words, profit-making has become more important than an imparting of education to the young. The coaching centres are a drain on family resources, with parents and guardians compelled to cough up large amounts of hard-earned money for the instructions the coaching centres are supposed to impart to their children. These parents and guardians already pay hefty fees to the schools where their children study. On top of that, the fees they must give the coaching centres clearly places them in straitened financial conditions. Should such notoriety be permitted to linger? 

Examinations cannot be conducted in transparent and encouraging ways through ordering a shutdown of coaching centres during the period of examinations. They are best conducted when no coaching centres exist and when schools see to it that their teaching staff provides classroom instruction to the young of the kind that fulfills the objective of education. If education in the classroom is fine, coaching centres become redundant. And now that the minister himself has termed coaching centres as illegal, we will wait and see how soon he acts against such illegality. Leave a Reply