Reaz Ahmad in conversation with Richard Reoch Photo: UNB 

Peace activist Richard Reoch talks to UNB ; Buddhist leader urges Myanmar ’s monastic leadership to stand against ethnic cleansing 

Richard Reoch, who served Amnesty International for over two decades and led an international Buddhist organisation for many years, is a globally-famed campaigner for peace. Canada-born Richard Reoch, who has been living in UK since 1971, recently visited Bangladesh as a member of a 16-strong International Interfaith Peace Corps (IIPC) delegation to have a firsthand account of the plights of Rohingya people who have been forced out of Myanmar and taken refuge in Bangladesh. 

The IIPC delegation, comprised of faith leaders from four different religions, visited the Rohingya refugee camps in Cox’s Bazar on March 26 and 27. Prior leaving Bangladesh the IIPC delegates made a fervent call to the world community to impose sanctions on Myanmar to stop it from meting out unprecedented injustices to the country’s ethnic Rohingya community. 

Richard Reoch has devoted his life to defending human rights, working for peace and protecting the environment. Born in Toronto, Canada, he was raised in a Buddhist family, eventually serving as the President of Shambhala, one of the largest Buddhist organizations in the world, from 2002 to 2015. He joined the International Secretariat of Amnesty International (1971-1993), becoming its global media chief (1980–1993). He then served as a trustee of The Rainforest Foundation (1996-2015), founded by English musician Sting (Gordon Matthew Thomas Sumner). 

He continued his work for human rights and peace, engaging with organizations in Northern Ireland (1994-2009) and Sri Lanka (1995-present). He is now a global advocate of cross-cultural communication and inter-faith understanding, speaking out on the rising tide of hatred and violence. 

Richard Reoch gave an interview to the UNB prior wrapping up his Bangladesh visit on last Friday. He called upon the monastic leadership in Myanmar to take a stand against ethnic cleansing in that country. 

Here are the excerpts of the interview 

Reaz Ahmad – Youwere part of an interfaith delegation that came with a mission to have a firsthand experience of the miseries of Rohingyas who’ve taken refuge in the camps in Cox’s Bazar. They were in the receiving end of many tortures and they were forced out from their land, where they had long been residing in. On humanitarian ground Bangladesh gave them shelter. You have been there and visited the camps for two days on March 26-27. What have you seen over there? 

Richard Reoch – It was profoundly troubling. A doctor said that she had worked in war zones and refugee camps all around the world in her life, and had never seen anything like this. It’s not just the scale of the problem; it’s the horrific way in which these people were treated. This was particularly important for me as a Buddhist because this atrocity is being carried out, it’s still continuing by people who said that they are doing this in the name of Buddhism. A very important moment for me was to be able to look at those people in the eyes and say to them how deeply saddened I am and Buddhists around the world are. It should be apparently in the name of Buddhism that this has been inflicted upon them. 

Reaz Ahmad – In the name of Buddhism!It (Buddhism) does preach love and peace. But what’s happening in Rakhine directly goes against the Buddha’s teachings. 

Richard Reoch – I am not a convert to Buddhism, I am a born Buddhist. I have lived in the Buddhist tradition all my life. I have never come across anything in the Buddhist teachings that is anywhere close to a justification for this. The Buddha was no stranger to genocide. His own family and clan were victims of genocide and one of the last acts of his life was to refuse to give his blessing to an act of genocide by a neighbouring kingdom. 

Reaz Ahmad – As we understand, you are part of a delegation that included people – community leaders, religious leaders and those who belong to diverse religions such as Christianity, Islam, Judaism and Buddhists like you. Do you think that this in itself will spread a message of love and peace, of interfaith relationship? 

Richard Reoch – Well, first of all we are facing a gigantic problem in the world. One visit by one delegation is not going to solve it. It is part of a global effort to start demonstrating that actually the only way forward for humanity is coexistence. 

After all, the greatest international statesman Myanmar has ever produced, U Thant, the 3rd Secretary General of the United Nations had a tremendous spiritual impact and he said the only war that humanity should be fighting is the war to promote diversity. 

So the composition of this delegation was deliberate, to show that we may have different belief systems but our common humanity is what binds us together here. We are determined to show that we are not taking one side or the other in terms of religious faith. We are standing on the side of humanity. 

Reaz Ahmad – If there is anything that you are taking back from this visit to the world to see, to spread a message, what will be that? 

Richard Reoch – From our part of the delegation, as Buddhists, we have two very clear messages. The first is that we’ve launched an international appeal which we are opening to be signed by Buddhists around the world, because it’s very important. 

Reaz Ahmad – Who is this appeal for? 

Richard Reoch – To the Buddhist leadership, to the monastic leadership in Myanmar, asking them to take a stand in the name of Buddhism against ethnic cleansing, against this killing and against what many people see as genocide. 

Number twomessage – there is a desperate need for international funding, because the international media spotlight has moved on. Bangladesh cannot possibly sustain this situation all on its own and it needs the international community, both governments and people, to continue to be generous in meeting the most basic needs for these people. 

They came here with nothing. Even if you look at their shelters, which are so fragile – bamboo and plastic. The monsoons are coming. One powerful thunderclap could flatten all those dwellings and turn it into a swamp of mud. 

We’ve definitely pledged to go back and encourage generosity from the world Buddhist community. 

Reaz Ahmad – Do you foresee any donor fatigue as this crisis islingering with no short-term solution still in sight? 

Richard Reoch – This is definitely correct, and I know that the government of Bangladesh has already signaled fear that although they were told “money will be no problem”, once that spotlight of attention moves on, people start saying – “oh well; now we have to pay attention to the next crisis”. We’ve got to find a way to overcome this short attention span of the international community. 

Reaz Ahmad – The very composition of your delegation, it has a lot of diversity, religion-wise and also on nationality, such as UK, Canada, US, and Sudan. Going back to those countries, do you think you can have some sort of influenceon the governments, the administration, Congress, people’s representatives – so that they take up this issue more seriously and put pressure on Myanmar for an early solution to this problem? 

Richard Reoch – I think first of all, one of the reasons there were so many people from the United States is that the US Congress and Senate are currently into legislation, which would ensure a continuing financial support for the humanitarian effort, but also to begin holding those who are responsible for these atrocities – accountable under international law. 

This is one of the things that the refugees spoke to us – they said there are three things that are necessary for their return. 

One is safety, another is citizenship and the third is justice. That’s part of the focus there and in order for that process to work in that country, there has to be a ground of popular opinion. 

My colleagues who were there from the US are doing that, and similarly, in many of the countries that we come from, the networks associated with the Muslim, Buddhist and Christian communities are very strong. They have historically supported humanitarian efforts. 

We are going to go back and plug into those networks because at the very least, we have to keep the spotlight of international attention on this. We are sure that if these people are forgotten, the people who committed these atrocities will be very happy. 

Reaz Ahmad – We have seen in the past too that during the late 1970s and again in the ‘90s, there were influxes of Rohingyas, but not in this great number. This time it is pretty big. People say that there are hardly any Rohingyas remaining there on the other side of the border. 

In the past, we used to hear about the Myanmar military, but this time, a section of Myanmar’s Buddhist leadership, with nationalistic or religious zeal, is against the Rohingyas. If this is true, why is it so? 

Richard Reoch – In one of our meetings with the refugees, I asked this very question. All the faiths in Myanmar are traditions of peace. Islam is a religion of peace, Christianity is a religion of peace, and Buddhism is a religion of peace. What happened – I asked this gentleman who was one of the Imams in the camp. 

I thought his answer was telling and honest. He said “actually we have no idea what got into their minds.” I thought the truth of this was that there seems to be hysteria – the frenzy with which these villages were burned, babies thrown into the flames, women treated in the most abominable way and in such a compressed period of time. It’s like one of these eruptions of madness. 

But I am very sad to say that this madness has been very deliberately fanned by men wearing the sacred robes of the Buddhist tradition. The profound mistake here is that they are somehow thinking that they are protecting Buddhism. In fact, this is how a faith is destroyed. When people see these things being done, which are the exact opposite of the teachings of Buddha, people lose confidence both in that faith, and in religion altogether. 

Reaz Ahmad – In one way or the other, they are misled by something. 

Richard Reoch – That is the polite way of putting it. It is true that genocide begins in the human mind, with a catastrophe in the mind, hatred also. They begin invisibly. They begin with a seed, with a drop of poison, and then it begins to spread. 

This is actually part of all the teachings that we share in common – you have to pay attention to your own mind and your own heart, because if it starts to go in the wrong direction – catastrophe is the result. 

Reaz Ahmad – How do you think that the world leaderships, regional leaderships, Bangladesh, Myanmar and the UN – every organisation or country can chip in here for a durable solution of this crisis? 

Richard Reoch – First of all at the international level, there has been a tremendous response, you can say, on the operational level from bodies like the UN, the refugee agencies and the voluntary agencies around the world – this is where you see the beating heart of humanity. Something like this happens, they come. 

On another level, the United Nations Human Rights Commission (UNHCR) and particularly their office has been very outspoken and doing all the right work. I know that they have been carefully collecting all the evidence about this because there is a serious question of bringing those responsible to what is called universal jurisdiction, meaning it may not be possible to have justice within the Myanmar court system, but there could be an international court. 

However, at the high level of UN – it is only made up of its member states. I think there is a feeling that Myanmar has powerful support and that support will protect it from international criticism, which is very sad, as it is the opposite of the way the international order is meant to work. 

The other aspect concerns Myanmar itself. I don’t think I’m saying anything surprising when I say that there has got to be a significant change in the country. It is not up to me to say how that should come about or what it should be. 

But at the very least, there has to be a change of heart because after all, if you look at the country as a whole, it has more than a hundred ethnic groups. It is a living example of an ethnic and religious diversity and if it is actually to survive, it has to have a way of embracing that. 

This is a long-term project, but the urgency about this particular crisis is that this is a time-bomb, for Myanmar’s own political process and its effort to reach harmony in the country and a time-bomb for Southeast Asia as well. 

Those two factors alone mean that it is a time-bomb for the world. You cannot treat almost an entire population like this and expect that it will simply go away and also that there will not be any consequences. 

I am not able to predict the future but I feel a tremendous sense of urgency here and that is why we have to work so hard right now, because if we put in our efforts right now, we might just possibly be able to either shorten the fuse or defuse this time-bomb. 

Reaz Ahmad – As a first step, don’t you think that there should be a repatriation process? 

Richard Reoch – There can only be a repatriation process if the people, who are going to be repatriated, want to be repatriated. Otherwise, it’s another “forced migration”. 

Reaz Ahmad – To make them agreeable to repatriate, it is very important to bring in the faith and trust that they’ve lost in the process, and also create an environment within Myanmar so that they are rest assured that once they get back to their places, then there would be no more trouble. 

Richard Reoch – This is not the same as saying to people after a natural disaster like a flood or a cyclone – like “we will build your homes and when the home is dry and safe, you can go back” – these are people who have fled for their lives. 

In the camps, when we asked them about this, they were very clear, there has to be safety, safety means security. 

As you know the government of Bangladesh has proposed the creation of safe zones under UN supervision, which the refugees have described as “UN peacekeepers”. 

Then there is the issue of citizenship. They are not prepared to go back to a situation where they are utterly vulnerable and not recognised as part of the country. 

And the 3rd aspect is justice. It was a universal concern of people like this everywhere in the world that they want to see those who did this to their loved ones – I think its 60 percent of the young people that have lost either their mother or their father, or both. They have witnessed the most atrocious acts. This is murder on a mass scale. 

They need to see that something has changed, and for them the evidence is that those responsible have been brought to justice. 

Reaz Ahmad – That draws an end to our conversation. It was a pleasure meeting you and having this discussion with you. Thank you for giving us the time. 

Richard Reoch – Thank you to the people of Bangladesh for opening your border to these people. 

Reaz Ahmad is Executive Editor of the United News of Bangladesh ( UNB ).