Ready for lift-off 

If one starts from Dhaka’s Zero Point to reach and check out the city’s iconic Bangabandhu Memorial Museum in Dhanmondi it should take him/her an hour and 15 minutes of walk provided sidewalks are free of illegal occupants and other hazards. But if one choses to travel the same five kilometre distance by a motor vehicle in rush hours s/he can well expect saving 15 precious minutes. Dhaka traffic is now faster by only one kilometre per hour (1 kmph) comparing to average speed of walking speed during rush hours. 

It is evident from our info graphic that Dhaka traffic is losing speed fast thanks to a worsening gridlock. Dhaka is otherwise a compact city to explore on foot, as many of the sights are well within convenient walking distance of the city centre – Zero Point at Shaheed Noor Hossain Square. But ease of walking is not there. Roads and footpaths are not walk-friendly – pedestrians have to negotiate hawkers, beggars, construction materials stacked on sidewalks, and all the risky curves and caves (read uncovered manholes) to go on foot from place to place. 

But then again to depend on motorised modes of transports for daily commuting carries little meaning for Dhakaites now as far as reaching to one’s destination on time is concerned. World Bank said in one of its reports last year that Dhaka traffic’s hourly speed has gone down to 7 kmph in last year comparing to 21 kmph a decade back. Two weeks back a BUET (Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology) found out that motor vehicles can at best cover a five km distance in an hour during rush hours in Dhaka now. 
Authorities concerned are trying out with plans like flyovers, metro rail and elevated expressways to ease the traffic. After spending hell lot of money on installing automated traffic signaling and countdown timers, a plan is now well underway for buying remote controls to operate ‘red’ and ‘green’ lights in the traffic intersections. The idea is to employ a combination of both manual and digital signaling. Question remains on practicality of these various piecemeal solutions when Dhaka is expanding as a mega city with its road space remaining a paltry 7.5 percent against a standard 20 percent. More importantly, over a third of Bangladesh’s total urban population is now housed in Dhaka – this itself is an unhealthy scenario. Without putting out an immediate urban decentralisation plan in place, it’ll be next to impossible to solve the maze of chaotic Dhaka traffic. Leave a Reply