PM inaugurates 4 road uplift projects in Cumilla Published on: 7:37 pm - Thursday | April 5, 2018 Exclusive / Features / Focus / National   Prime Minister Sheikh on Thursday opened four road development projects in Cumilla expressing her firm optimism that Bangladesh would advance further keeping its head high. 
“We’re a victorious nation … we’ll move keeping our head high and materialize Bangabandhu’s dream of establishing a developed and prosperous Sonar Bangla (Golden Bangla),” she told the inaugural function of the four projects. 
The premier opened the four development projects through a video conferencing from her official Ganabhaban residence in city this morning, reports BSS. 
The schemes are Companiganj-Muradnagar-Homna Highway and Gouripur-Homna Bridge under the Road Transport and Highways Division and Shasangachha Railway Overpass in Cumilla town and Paduar Bazar Railway Overpass in Cumilla. 
Sheikh Hasina also extended her heartfelt thanks to all concerned including the Road Transport and Bridges Ministry, Bangladesh Army’s 34 Engineering Construction Brigade as well as the people of Cumilla for completing the projects. 
Minister for Road Transport and Bridges Obidul Quader, Engineer-in-Chief of Bangladesh Army Major General Siddiqur Rahman Sarkar spoke on theoccasion. 
Road Transport and Bridges Secretary Nazrul Islam gave a presentation on the projects of roads and overpasses, while PM’s Principal Secretary Md Nojibur Rahman moderated the function at Ganabhaban. 
The 344-metre long and 21.6-metre wide Paduar Bazar Railway Overpass, the final part of Dhaka-Chittagong four-lane, was implemented at a cost of Taka 30 crore 47 lakh. 
Bangladesh Army’s 34 Engineering Construction Brigade implemented the project under the supervision of Road Transport and Highways Division. 
Roads and Highways Department under the Road Transport and Highways Division constructed the 631.50-metre long and 8.9-metre wide Shasangachha Railway overpass at a cost of Tk 94 crore. 
The 23.5-km long Gauripur-Homna Road along with four bridges including 112.6-metre long and 10.25-metre wide Gouripur-Homna Bridge was constructed at a cost of Tk 73 crore 84 lakh by Roads and Highways Department. 
After inauguration of the projects, the prime minister talked to officials, public representatives, teachers, students and religious leadersof Cumilla through video conferencing. 
Later, Sheikh Hsaina inaugurated newly constructed 9 model mosques and Islamic cultural centres built in different places of the country. 
These model mosques and Islamic cultural centres were constructed under a government project to build one mosque and cultural centre in each district and upazila. Recent Updates