Sending Khaleda Zia abroad for treatment not necessary: Doctors Published on: 7:18   Features / National   
The medical board formed by the government for BNP chairperson Khaleda Zia’s treatment on Sunday said she does not need to go aboard for receiving treatment right now. 
‘Khaleda Zia’s physical condition apparently looks good. There’s no necessity to send her abroad for treatment at the moment as it’s possible to ensure the treatment here,’ Prof Dr Shamsuzzaman Sheheen, the head of the four-member medical team, said, reports the UNB. 
He, however, said they are yet to receive the reports of Khaleda’s medical tests conducted at the Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University on Saturday. 
Shamsuzzaman, also the head of Orthopedic Department of the Dhaka Medical College and Hospital (DMCH), said Khaleda’s conditions will be assessed properly once they receive her x-ray reports. 
Khaleda had long been suffering from pain on her shoulder, left hand and leg which has recently deteriorated, he added. 
Earlier on Saturday, Khaleda was taken to Radiology and Imaging Department of BSMMU for various tests on Saturday where several x-rays of her bones were taken as the medical board’s suggestion. 
On April 1, the government formed the medical team with four professors of Dhaka Medical College Hospital to examine her health condition and ensure her treatment in the jail. 
Later, the four doctors suggested conducting some medical examinations, including x-ray on her different bones and joints and blood test. 
On completion of her tests at BSMMU’s Radiology and Imaging department, she was taken back to the jail. 
After the BNP chief’s departure, BSMMU director Abdullah-Al-Harun told reporters that her health condition apparently looks good but her real condition can be known once her x-ray reports are in hand. 
He said four doctors—DrWahidur Rahman, DrMamun, Dr FM Siddique and her personal physician in the jail, who were preferred by Khaleda Zia, were present during the whole process. 
Khaleda Zia fell sick in the jail on March 29. 
On April 1, the government formed a medical team with four professors of Dhaka Medical College Hospital to examine her health condition and ensure her treatment in the jail. 
On February 8 last, a special court here sentenced Khaleda to five years’ rigorous imprisonment in the Zia Orphanage Trust graft case. Recent Updates