China's president offers US possible trade concessions World Desk | newsbangladesh.com Inserted: 11:56, Tuesday 10 April 2018 || Updated: 17:44, Tuesday 10 April 2018 In this photo released by Xinhua News Agency, Chinese President Xi Jinping delivers his opening speech at the Boao Forum for Asia Annual Conference in Boao in south China’s Hainan province, Tuesday, April 10, 2018. Xi promised to cut auto import taxes, open China’s markets further and improve conditions for foreign companies in a speech Tuesday that called for international cooperation against a backdrop of a spiraling dispute with Washington over trade and technology. (Li Xueren/Xinhua via AP) President Xi Jinping promised Tuesday to cut China’s auto tariffs and improve intellectual property protection in possible concessions aimed at defusing a worsening dispute with Washington over trade and technology that investors worry could set back the global economic recovery, reports AP. Speaking at a business conference, Xi made no direct mention of his American counterpart, Donald Trump, or the dispute. He promised progress on areas that are US priorities including opening China’s banking industry and boosting imports but didn’t address key irritants for Washington such as a requirement for foreign companies to work through joint ventures that require them to give technology to potential local competitors. Xi tried to position China as a defender of free trade and cooperation, despite its status as the most-closed major economy, in response to Trump’s “America first” calls for import restrictions and trade deals that are more favorable to the United States. “China’s door of opening up will not be closed and will only open wider,” Xi said at the Boao Forum for Asia on the southern island of Hainan. Xi said Beijing will “significantly lower” tariffs on auto imports this year and ease restrictions on foreign ownership in the auto industry “as soon as possible.” Private sector analysts saw Xi’s speech as an overture to help end the biggest global trade dispute since World War II. It has fueled fears the global economic recovery might be set back if other governments are prompted to raise their own import barriers. Trump has threatened to raise tariffs on Chinese goods worth $50 billion in response to complaints Beijing pressures foreign companies to hand over technology in violation of its World Trade Organization market-opening commitments. Beijing fired back with its own $50 billion list of US goods for possible retaliation. The Chinese leader promised to encourage “normal technological exchange” and to “protect the lawful ownership rights of foreign enterprises.” Such pledges might help, Rajiv Biswas of IHS Markit said in a report. Chinese officials deny foreign companies are compelled to hand over technology, but business groups say joint venture and licensing rules make that unavoidable. The United States filed a World Trade Organization complaint last month accusing Beijing of violating its market-opening pledges by imposing unfair contract terms and allowing companies to use foreign-owned technology after licensing periods expire. Foreign companies complain Beijing is squeezing them out of promising parts of the state-dominated economy to promote the ruling Communist Party’s plans to create Chinese global competitors in fields including robotics, electric cars and pharmaceuticals. Easing rules that limit global automakers to owning no more than 50 percent of a joint venture with a Chinese partner might help to address Trump’s complaints about technology as well as giving them more flexibility in their biggest global market. Jake Parker, the vice president for China of the US-China Business Council, which represents companies that deal with China, welcomed Xi’s announcement but expressed hope for additional steps such as ending requirements for joint ventures and technology licensing. Xi repeated pledges to open China’s finance industries to foreign investors but gave no additional details. Chinese regulators announced that intention in November, just after Trump ended a high-profile visit to Beijing, but gave no timeline or details. Business groups welcomed the commitment but said breaking into China’s state-dominated financial industries would be hard for new competitors and Beijing might impose restrictions that would make such an effort unprofitable. More broadly, Xi repeated official promises to expand imports and to narrow China’s trade surplus, another irritant for Washington. China reported a global trade surplus of $423 billion last year — about two-thirds of that with the United States. The president promised to make faster progress toward joining the WTO’s Government Procurement Agreement, which extends the WTO’s free-trading principles to purchases by governments. That can make a significant difference in developing countries, where the government often accounts for most sales of computer software, medical equipment and other high-value goods. The bulk of Xi’s 40-minute speech was devoted to China’s vision for economic development and its global role following a ruling party congress in October that confirmed him as the most dominant Chinese leader since at least the 1980s. Xi sounded a conciliatory note toward neighbors with which Beijing has territorial disputes, saying China wants to pursue peaceful cooperative development. AP/newsbangladesh.com/tbs Any unauthorised use or reproduction of newsbangladesh.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action. Follow Us 