Injured cricketer Nasir Hossain is walking at Sher-e-Bangla National Cricket Stadium premises with the support of crutch on April 9. Photo: Collected 

Tigers are suffering from a bout of injury blows. A number of Bangladesh’s ace cricketers are down with various injuries. As a result many of them are now missing out the games at home and abroad. While some players are victims of recent injuries, others have been in pain for one injury or the other for long. 

It is commonly known and sadly recalled that Bangladesh’s ODI side skipper Mashrafe Bin Mortaza, the most inspirational and loveable person among cricket fraternity is continuing his career with an on-and-off pain of knee injury for long after seven surgeries since 2002. 

Mashrafe is okay with it — as the 35-year-old cricketer said “I’m not tired yet” during last Premier Cricket in March — but his fans always remain in tension at the gallery or in front of TV sets when the first genuine fast bowler of Bangladesh appears on the ground with ball. 

Tigers spin all-rounder Nasir Hossain is the last injured player who torn his knee ligament during practice session on April 9 and the 26-year-old cricketer is likely to remain out of the ground for the next sixth months. 

Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) physician Dr Debashish Chowdhury said on April 10 that “There is no alternative of surgery as he [Nasir] tore his right knee ligament,” Chowdhury said this after assessing a scan report. 

Under Nasir’s leadership Abahani Ltd clinched the title of the recently concluded Dhaka Premier Division League on April 5. He was supposed to join BCB North Zone to take part in the ongoing Bangladesh Cricket League (BCL). The four-day cricket BCL resumed on April 10. 

Tigers dashing opener Tamim Iqbal is on rehabilitation — through conservative process for four to six weeks — returning home from Thailand after treatment of his knee injury. He was playing in the Pakistan Super League for franchised side Peshawar Zalmi, left for Thailand on March 21 for the treatment as his knee injury reappeared. 

Tamim suffered knee injury during Bangladesh’s final game of Nidahas Trophy tri-nation T20I tournament against India in Colombo, Sri Lanka on March 18. 

He batted in the final of the Nidahas Trophy, but skipped the fielding and joined in PSL with the injury and also played the first eliminator for Peshawar Zalmi’s 1-run win against Quetta Gladiators on March 20. 

Speed star Taskin Ahmed and Mosaddek Hossain are now in out of actions for their side of BCL as both of them are suffering from back pain while another pace bowler Rubel Hossain is currently suffering from high fever. 

Young all-rounder Mehidy Hasan Miraz is down with a shoulder injury and he is also missing out the BCL assignment. 

BCB chief selector Minhajul Abedin Nannu on April 9 told media that after discussing with physician they decided to give rest to Taskin and Mosaddek. They will observe the injury status of these three cricketers — Taskin, Mosaddek and Miraz — whether they’ll able to return to ground soon. 

BCB chief physician Chowdhury advised the cricketers to keep themselves hydrated in the hot and humid weather. 

Bangladesh cricket Test and T20I sides captain Shakib Al Hasan, who is now playing for a franchised team Sunrisers Hyderabad in the Indian Premier League (IPL), recently recovered from his finger injury. 

Shakib suffered injury during fielding against Sri Lanka in the Tri-nation ODI series final in Mirpur on January 27 and returned for the national side in the Tigers must-win game for a final seat in the Nidahas Trophy tri-nation T20I tournament against hosts Sri Lanka on March 16. Leave a Reply