Quota system to be re-examined after budget 
Finance Minister AMA Muhith said the government will re-examine the quota system of the public service recruitment after the national budget. “We will re-examine the quota system after the budget”, he said while addressing a meeting at the Finance Ministry on April 10. Defending the quota system he said quota must be there to advance the un-advanced group of the society. “But there might be rethinking about the percentage of quota for different groups”, he added. At least 75 people were injured and several others detained recently as violence flared up with Shahbagh and its adjacent areas turning into a battlefield for the past few days. 

Digital security bill placed in JS amid concern 
The much-debated Digital Security Bill-2018 was placed in parliament on April 9. Telecom and ICT Minister Mustafa Jabbar placed the proposed law before the House, which was sent to the parliamentary standing committee on the ministry concerned for scrutinising it. The committee had also been asked to submit a report to parliament within four weeks. “One of the main objectives of the proposed law is to ensure the country’s security from digital crimes and ensure security of people’s lives and assets,” the minister said while placing the bill. The Digital Security Bill-2018 splits these offences into four separate sections (21, 25, 28 and 29) with punishment ranging from three to 10 years’ jail term. 

Dhaka, Delhi sign multiple MoUs 
Indian Foreign Secretary Vijay Gokhale left Dhaka on April 10, ending his first Bangladesh visit, which allowed both sides to take stock of their relations. After the bilateral meeting, the Bangladesh foreign secretary said Dhaka is ‘happy’ over India’s position on the Rohingya refugee issue and its progress on the pending Teesta water sharing deal. The Indian foreign secretary assured that they are “working hard internally” to resolve the issue. Six MoUs related to education, culture, road infrastructure, and communication, have also been signed. Those are the implementation MoU on the friendship pipeline between Numaligarh and Parbatipur, a MoU on cooperation between Prasar Bharati and Bangladesh Betar, an MoU for setting up an ICCR Urdu Chair in Dhaka University, an Addendum to the GCNEP-BAEC Interagency Agreement. 

Doctors find problem in Khaleda’s waist bones 
BNP Chairperson Khaleda Zia has some problem in the joint of her waist bones, chief of the medical board formed for her treatment said on April 10. Due to aging and current illness, this inconsistency in her waist might have been created, the board members said. The BNP chief was taken to Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujib Medical University (BSMMU) for some medical tests on Saturday from the city’s old central jail. X-rays of her spine, hip joint and pelvis were done at the hospital. Leave a Reply