Dozens injured in New York bus crash 
Dozens of New York teenagers returning from a school trip to Eastern Europe were injured when their bus crashed on the journey home to Long Island, police said. New York State Police Major David Candelaria said of the 44 people on board Sunday evening, two were seriously wounded and five moderately, with the rest of the injuries minor. The passengers included 38 students aged between 16 and 18. Images on local media showed the bus, owned by New Jersey-based Journey Bus Line, with its roof sheared off after reportedly striking an overpass on the Southern State Parkway in Lakeview, around 30 miles (48 kilometers) southeast of Manhattan. 

Ex-S. Korean leader Park gets 24-year prison term 
Former South Korean President Park Geun-hye was formally convicted of an array of corruption charges and sentenced to 24 years in prison on April 6, a year after she was driven from office and arrested over a scandal that saw months of massive street rallies calling for her ouster. The conviction, which she can appeal, is the latest indignity for South Korea’s first female president, who grew up in the presidential palace as the daughter of a former dictator and even served as first lady after her mother’s assassination. The harshness of the sentence is likely to deepen divisions in a country still wrestling with the aftermath of the most serious political turmoil in years. 

Brazil’s Lula sent to jail after standoff with cops 
Leftist icon Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva spent April 8 as Brazil’s first ex-president to be imprisoned for a common crime — and his cell was in the headquarters of the giant anti-graft probe that brought him down. The first day of Lula’s 12-year sentence marked the downfall of once one of the world’s most popular politicians. Although Brazilian presidents of recent history have routinely ended up in trouble — impeached, brought down by a coup and even one suicide — Lula is the first to have been convicted of corruption and locked up. 

Salman walks out of jail after bail 
Bollywood superstar Salman Khan left prison on April 7 after being granted bail so he can contest a five-year jail sentence imposed for killing rare antelopes two decades ago. Hundreds of frenzied fans awaited the 52-year-old as his vehicle sped through the gates of Jodhpur Central Jail, where the action star had spent two nights after being sentenced on Thursday. Some tried to cling on to the sides of his sports utility vehicle and scores of motorbikes followed Khan as he was driven at high speed to Jodphur airport to a waiting chartered jet. Swelling crowds — many men emulating Khan’s distinctive hairstyle and clothes — also gathered outside his luxury apartment in Mumbai, dancing to songs from his films. Leave a Reply