Moral ills causing turpitude 

But all happiness aside, why should anyone bother whether Bangladesh is happy or not? Domestic news depicts otherwise. Purists are slamming social degradation but let’s be more specific here: How many times have we seen people in authority facing corruption charges brought to justice? 

A homogenous nation as we are with rural root and common culture, the society is now in the process of gradual disintegration into a fragmented, greed oriented, selfish entity. This gradual degradation of values make our society less humane and we become poorer in social capital. 

While we observe this sad spectacle of the society on the one hand there is on the other hand a corrosive culture that undermines the society. A section of young men and women are driven to drugs –be it yaba or phensedyl or such other substance. The bane of this scourge is felt at all strata of society. The number of “clinics” mushrooming in the cities for the healing of such sickness is a testimony to that. 

People seem to be edging gradually to the kingdom of fully filled with conflict, jealous, envy and violence and hellish situation. Criminal activities have been increasingly rising outstripping and breaking the previous number and records respectively. According to the social scientists and conscious citizens, the root cause of tendency to returning to the barbaric age could be attributed to degradation of moral values in our society. 

It is known that Bangladesh has topped the list of corrupt countries five times. A developing country like Bangladesh cannot afford to tolerate the perpetrators to committing crime and mischief causing great harm to the country men. When moral decadence has been figured out as the root cause of all social ills as asserted above. Moral standards to restore, have to be focused on priority basis. Eroding moral values must be resisted otherwise the nation is likely to be pushed into the abyss of darkness. 

Dr Mekhala Sarkar, Psychiatrist as well as an Epidemiologist, is currently working as an Assistant Professor of Psychiatry in National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH). She took the example of the Holey Artisan attacks and the use of youngsters for such an atrocity. She said there was no research to say exactly what motivates youths to be extremists at this moment, though many of the recent attackers were members of the well-to-do families. But she also added that it was possible to identify a common vulnerable point through detailed analysis of the profiles of the dead, missing or arrested youths. 

Regarding road rages and other issues, such as certain reactions over trivial matters – being stuck in a traffic jam or engaging in a scuffle in the middle of the road between two drivers – all attribute to the lack of research into mental health in this country. 

“Mental health and wellbeing is not given importance in medical education and the students also do not show interest in this field. That is why the number of mental health experts is low,” she said. “In that situation, we must extend a helping hand instead of pushing that person away. If we do that, it will help create a sense of safety, dependency and confidence in the patient.” The doctor said that we were becoming victims of mental illnesses as the space to express ourselves was gradually shrinking. 

Md Abdullah Al Helal, Assistant Professor, Department of General Education, Northern University Bangladesh, said that continuance of corruption in a country leads to economic malaise and squandering of public resources, lowers governmental performance, adversely affects general morale in the public service, and jeopardizes administrative reform efforts and accountability measures, and perpetuates social and economic inequalities. 

“A person without moral values is like a lost ball in the high winds,” he said, “For this reason psychologists and sociologists have repeatedly pointed out that moral degradation and ethical decadence are the main causes of corruption. People’s immoral activities, vice and greed to amass wealth, materialistic attitude of life – all these attributes breed corruption.”