Suárez helps sink Valencia as Bara set record Sport Desk | newsbangladesh.com Inserted: 09:51, Sunday 15 April 2018 File Photo Barcelona responded to their shock Champions League elimination to Roma by beating Valencia 2-1 on Saturday in a subdued atmosphere at the Camp Nou, setting a La Liga record of 39 games unbeaten and taking themselves a step closer to another title. Luis Suárez gave Barcelona the lead after a quarter of an hour by meeting a delicious outside-of-the-foot pass from his former Liverpool team-mate Philippe Coutinho, scoring with one touch from close range. The record-signing Coutinho, who joined the club in a £142m deal in January, then delivered an outswinging corner from which Samuel Umtiti headed in a second in the 51st minute. His goal came shortly after Gerard Piqué had saved his blushes by clearing a shot off the line from the Valencia forward Santi Mina following a slip by the defender. The captain Dani Parejo pulled a goal back for third-placed Valencia by squeezing an 87th-minute penalty under the Barcelona goalkeeper Marc-André ter Stegen, but the Catalan club withstood an exciting final spell to move effectively to within seven points of a 25th league title. Ernesto Valverde’s side lead their nearest challengers, Atlético Madrid, by 14 points, with Diego Simeone’s team hosting Levante and fourth-placed Real Madrid visiting bottom-placed club Málaga on Sunday. In the early game on Saturday, Sevilla drew 2-2 with Villarreal , who led through goals from Daniel Raba and Carlos Bacca. However, the game turned after a 76th-minute red card for Jaume Costa and Nolito and Steven Nzonzi scored to level things up. Wissam Ben Yedder also saw red for Sevilla in the 62nd minute. Las Palmas remain deep in relegation trouble after Mikel Oyarzabal struck the only goal of the game to give Real Sociedad a 1-0 win. It gave Sociedad back-to-back league victories for the first time since August. Deportivo La Coruña won 3-2 for the second successive week as they inflicted a rare home defeat on Athletic Bilbao to keep alive their survival hopes. Agencies/newsbangladesh.com/tbs Any unauthorised use or reproduction of newsbangladesh.com content for commercial purposes is strictly prohibited and constitutes copyright infringement liable to legal action. Follow Us 