Enayetullah Khan presenting a copy of Art Against Genocide to Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina 

As much as the ongoing Rohingya crisis is being extensively covered by local and international media, the lack of a publication is the question persists among everyone. Similarly, protests against this humanitarian crisis through artwork had been missing all this time. But not anymore, as Cosmos Books has earned the distinction of bringing out the first publication of the Rohingya crisis, documenting the ordeal and also the artistic protests, in a book titled “Art Against Genocide”. 

Published in association with Cosmos Foundation, 30 artworks are featured in the book, including those by painter Shahabuddin, who recently said in an interview with Dhaka Courier that although it is a humanitarian issue of gigantic proportions, the way the Bangladeshi government has handled their sheltering is truly commendable. “For the first time Europe is on our side, which has stirred my conscience. I have drawn several artworks on the Rohingyas, and will continue to do so, as I believe this will be a massive task.” 

Artworks of other artists include Kalidas Karmakar, Maksuda Iqbal Nipa, Tanbir Sarwar Rana, Nabunda Shaha Nabo, Pradip Shaha and a host of others. They worked on various mediums such as oil on canvas, watercolour, acrylic on paper and more. The artworks were derived from Gallery Cosmos and Cox’s Bazar Art Club. 

Risking death by sea or on foot, more than half a million have fled the destruction of their homes and persecution in the northern Rakhine province of Myanmar for neighbouring Bangladesh since August last year. The United Nations described the military offensive in Rakhine, which provoked the exodus, as a “textbook example of ethnic cleansing”. Myanmar’s military says it is fighting Rohingya militants and denies targeting civilians. 

In his foreword, founding chairman of Genocide Watch and Research Professor of Genocide Studies and Prevention at George Mason University, Greg Stanton wrote that “The initiative (Art Against Genocide) comes at an extremely appropriate juncture, in light of events that demonstrate we must unite to deploy all weapons we possibly can, against the spectre of genocide threatening an entire population – what has been described as a slow-burning genocide over decades, but greatly intensified since August 25, when the first stream of refugees started arriving in Cox’s Bazar in Bangladesh.” 

Emmy and Oscar-winning filmmaker Dr Jim Frazier wrote that “Art retains the ability to stand as our first line of defence against this ailment in the human condition, due to the sense and sensibilities it bestows upon each of us who partake in its beauty.” 

The literature featured in the book comprises of expert analysis from the recent series of Cosmos Dialogues, arranged by the Foundation, which had extensively talked at great lengths about the ramifications of the Rohingya crisis and its implications for Bangladesh. 

Parisian art expert Dominique Stal wrote that “it is a highly commendable initiative on the part of the Cosmos Foundation, to arrange the Cosmos Dialogue on the Rohingya crisis.” He also added that the book will act “as a signpost in recapturing our humanity from the scourge that afflicts us.” 

In his essay, titled as the book, Enayetullah Khan, Chairman of Cosmos Foundation, fervently appealed to the international community that there is still no sign of the Myanmarese authorities sincerely favouring a permanent solution to the problem. Hence, the time to act is now and a humane approach that recognises, indeed cherishes and protects the universal value of human life must precede democracy for a nation. 

Reflecting on the importance of the discussion which was derived from the Cosmos Dialogues on the crisis, Nahar Khan, Executive Director of Cosmos Foundation, wrote that many of the highly informed participants were firmly of the view that with so much to absorb, the proceedings had to be documented and put on the record. “In keeping with a key Cosmos Group principle that puts faith in the power of art, that could be said to have been the genesis of Art Against Genocide.” 

Other essays in the book are authored by Brig. Gen. (Retd.) Shahedul Anam Khan, National Programme Manager of IOM Dhaka Asif Munier, Principal Research Fellow of ISAS and former adviser to the Caretaker Government Dr Iftekhar Ahmed Chowdhury, Coordinator of Refugee and Migratory Movements Research Unit (RMMRU) Prof CR Abrar, Foreign Affairs Secretary Shahidul Haque and more. Several are key note speeches which were delivered during last year’s Cosmos Dialogue, which was titled “Domestic, Regional and International Dimensions of the Rohingya Issue: Dealing with a Man-made Crisis.” 

Dr Iftekhar Ahmed Chowdhury acknowledged the arduous task of sheltering the Rohingyas by Bangladesh, under Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina. “The world recognises that our PM has displayed generosity of heart by welcoming the distressed Rohingya by our firmness of mind and by resolutely seeking to resolve the issue peacefully.” 

Prof CR Abrar’s essay, titled “Myanmar’s Genocide”, comes to a conclusion after much-conducted research that the Rohingyas are bonafide nationals of Myanmar for centuries and have enjoyed that status until the new citizenship law that was enacted in 1982. To add to their woes, a series of discriminatory laws were introduced against them since 1978. “Thus one may argue that Myanmar has long been engaged in genocidal acts against the Rohingya ethnic minority. Instead of erroneously labelling it as “ethnic cleansing”, it is time for the international community to term the state crimes of Myanmar as “genocide.” 

Despite the current spate of the repatriation process undertaken by Bangladesh and Myanmar, all facts paint a depressing picture, as nothing has come out of the repatriation agreement yet. Myanmar had agreed to take back 1,500 refugees each week (at this pace it would take 10 years for the more than 700,000 Rohingya refugees who have sought shelter in Bangladesh since October 2016) but no such thing has happened. Donor and compassion fatigue on this side of the border has already begun to show its signs. Myanmar continues to carry out its resettlement plan in northern Rakhine in full throttle. And from the looks of it, regional blocs such as the Asean can do very little.