“Art Against Genocide” first publication on Rohingya crisis 

With the announcement that Bangladesh is now set on the path to graduation out of the list, or more like the club of least developed countries, the so-called LDCs, former US Secretary of State (that is, equivalent to foreign minister in our system) Henry Kissinger has been on people’s minds. No surprises there. Held in sage-like reverence by most of the conservative establishment in the US, Dr Kissinger had nevertheless bungled US foreign policy over the war of secession raging in its strategic ally in the region, Pakistan, in 1971. Historians will debate forever the pros and cons of the loose hand the US displayed in its dealings with Pakistan at the time, as the latter’s army embarked on a campaign of unbridled cruelty with decidedly genocidal tendencies against its own unarmed population, in return for a back-channel to China. 

Certainly from our vantage point in 2018, with the current US administration of President Donald J. Trump now set to review its relations with both Pakistan (mostly security cooperation) and China (mostly trade and commerce) in a more critical light, a sense of vindication for Dr Kissinger’s foreign policy prescription, as national security adviser to the Nixon administration in 1971, itself is a hard sell. Echoes of the closing lines in the iconic ‘Blood Telegram’ written by the then US Consul General in Dhaka, Archer K Blood, in which he implored the powers that be to embark on a course correction to preserve America’s “true and lasting” interests in the region. 

In hindsight, one may well surmise that it would have been in Washington’s true and lasting interest to side with the unheralded freedom fighters of Bangladesh in those tumultuous days. The least you would expect of the US as a superpower with influence over the perpetrators of war crimes and mass murder and rape, would be to raise their voice against it. But Messrs. Kissinger and Nixon had their sights set on a grand bargain further to the east of East Pakistan. And they got their wish soon after Bangladesh had secured its independence with the Pakistani army’s surrender on December 16, 1971. The following February, President Nixon entered China for talks with Chairman Mao via Pakistan. THough instantly hailed as historic, how history will judge that meeting and its subsequent impact on world affairs, as well as the on the respective populations of the two countries, is open to interpretation. 

Christopher Hitchens, the late British journalist, in The Trial of Henry Kissinger, wrote: “Kissinger had received some very bad and even mocking press for his handling of the Bangladesh crisis, and it had somewhat spoiled his supposedly finest hour in China. He came to resent the Bangladeshis and their leader, and even compared (this according to his then aide Roger Morris) Mujib to Allende.” 

Which may have been why during a 19-hour stopover in Dhaka in 1974, now as US Secretary of State, Kissinger didn’t take the opportunity to walk-back the original ‘basketcase’ reference, or even to deny any role in having coined it (the analogy had been drawn by a junior diplomat at a meeting Kissinger merely chaired towards the end of the war in 1971). In the throes of the 1974 famine, it may still have seemed prophetic. Certainly nowhere near as pathetic and out of touch as it sounds today. 

Although the Kissinger reference is the one everyone latches on to, there was another at times misunderstood title conferred on Bangladesh in that first decade of struggle, which perhaps is more worthy of revisiting. Bangladesh: The Test Case for Development (1976) was authored by Just Faaland, a Norwegian political economist who worked closely with the country’s first Planning Commission (the star-studded one with Rehman Sobhan, Nurul Islam, Anisur Rahman, et al) and later became the World Bank’s first country representative in Bangladesh, and J.R. Parkinson. Given the title’s hypothesis (if development could work in Bangladesh, it could work anywhere), some are given to regard it as disparaging almost on the same plane as Kissinger. But far from it. Indeed, by some accounts, Faaland wrote it as a response to Kissinger’s continued gloom over the country’s prospects, because unlike the US scholar-cum-diplomat-cum-politician, he was a believer in Bangladesh and its path to development. Today, as Bangladesh leaves behind its LDC status, it is the Norwegian who stands taller, and he does so by standing by us. 

The viability of the nascent Bangladeshi state clearly was a hot topic in the 1970s, perhaps even more so in the various aid and donor forums. To be sure, the world knew of no other state that had been born into more adverse circumstances. The existential threat it faced was very real at the time. If Pakistan didn’t regain control over it, India might choose to annex it. Overpopulated, impoverished, starved and disaster-prone, the state seemingly stood on a powder keg. But its governments persisted, warts and all, and its people persevered. When it came to the LDCs, it gained automatic entry, and possibly thought never to get out. Graduating out of it was thought to be…well it was hardly thought of at all. Now some voices sound apprehensive, at the prospect of losing some of the preferential aid-and-trade deals that accrue to members of the club. Yet that is surely no way for a nation to think or behave, if it chooses to chase its destiny. Bangladesh is too far into this race, to look back now. 

Milestone, no winning goal 

Bangladesh has attained all the three graduation criteria to be eligible for graduation from the least-developed country (LDC) group to that of the developing nations. State Minister for Foreign Affairs M Shahriar Alam said the UN’s Committee for Development Policy (CDP) confirmed it on March 15 in New York. As per the rules, a country is declared as a middle-income nation if that particular country can attain these criteria consecutively in three years. 

To be eligible for graduation the thresholds for at least two of the three graduation criteria (Human Asset Index, Economic Vulnerability Index and per capita Gross National Income) need to be attained. 

While a number of LDCs, including from South Asia (Nepal and Bhutan), are expected to be considered for graduation, Bangladesh has the unique distinction of attaining the thresholds for all the three graduation criteria. 

Once graduated, Bangladesh will not be eligible for support measures given to LDCs accorded by multilateral institutions such as the WTO. Special and differential treatment for the LDC members will no longer be available to Bangladesh (in the form of market access, technical assistance, waivers from obligations, protracted implementation period in view of implementing obligations and commitments). 

How it became a reality 

The 3 criteria for LDC graduation are Gross National Income (GNI) per capita, Human Assets Index (HAI) and Economic Vulnerability Index (EVI). 

According to the UN’s graduation thresholds set at the triennial review in 2015, gross national income (GNI) per capita of a country has to be $1,242 or above. Bangladesh’s GNI per capita rose to $1,610 at the end of fiscal 2016-17. The GNI per capita is the value of a country’s final income in a year, divided by its population. It reflects the average income of a country’s citizens. 

On the other two indexes — human assets and economic vulnerability — a country has to score 66 or above and 32 or below respectively. Bangladesh’s score in the human assets index stood at 72.9 and in the economic vulnerability index 24.8, meaning the country meets all the criteria. 

Ramifications 

Zahid Hussain, lead economist at the World Bank’s Dhaka office, said Bangladesh is the only country to have met all the three criteria at the same time for becoming eligible to graduate from the LDC bloc. “It will have to pass two more reviews in 2021 and 2024 to get out of the LDC list. The graduation process has just begun. Progress on the three criteria will have to be sustained to make sure we graduate in 2024,” he told this newspaper. 

“We need to make much more progress in reducing the percentage of undernourished population to increase our achievement on the Human Assets Index. Reducing undernourishment is much more challenging than reducing the percentage of population in poverty,” Zahid observed. He further said there are also considerable challenges on the economic vulnerability front. Reducing export concentration has proven to be difficult. 

“Our dependence on garments continues. Our exports of goods and services have also been very volatile. Trade policy, logistics and business regulations reforms will be critical for export diversification and stability.” One of the major challenges will be to maintain stability of agricultural production as availability of farmland is decreasing. Besides, adverse effects of climate change are getting more noticeable, he noted. 

Besides, it has to be ensured that natural disasters do not lead to an increase in the proportion of homeless population. Bangladesh has done well in coping with natural disasters but this should never be taken for granted, added the WB lead economist. The UN gave LDC status to 17 countries in 1971. Now, the total number of LDCs is 47. 

Five countries have so far graduated from LDC status: Botswana in 1994, Cape Verde in 2007, the Maldives in 2011, Samoa in 2014, and Equatorial Guinea last year. The UN reviews the list of LDCs every three years and makes recommendations on the inclusion and graduation of eligible countries. The UN did the review the last time in 2015 when three countries, including Nepal and Bhutan, became eligible for graduation from the LDC bloc. 

Bangladesh’s graduation will have some implications for its economy. Once the country gets out of the LDC bloc in 2024, it will probably be given a three-year transition period before it loses duty-free and quota-free market access to the European Union under the Everything but Arms initiative for LDCs, according to the CDP. 

The benefits of technical cooperation and other forms of assistance such as fund support for scholarship, fellowship, participation for special training as well as for research will be pulled out. The scope of the credit accessibility will also be reduced. According to a study by the Economic Relations Division in December last year, Bangladesh is likely to lose about $2.7 billion in export earnings every year once it graduates from the LDC bracket. 

Bangladesh – Next Botswana ? 

Botswana gained its independence from Britain in 1966 and was among the first countries classified by the UN General Assembly under the LDC status in 1971. In 1994 Botswana formally graduated from the LDC status to a developing Country – one of the first countries to do so. Four decades of uninterrupted civilian leadership, progressive social policies, and significant capital investment have created one of the most dynamic economies in Africa. Mineral extraction, principally diamond mining, dominates the economic activity, though agriculture and tourism are growing economic sectors thanks to the country’s conservation practices and its extensive natural reserves. 

Today, Botswana has graduated to an upper middle-income status, following a path of wise economic policy and prudence. Economic growth has been supported by the nationwide deployment of ICT and the implementation of performance management systems in almost all facets of public activity and in the private sector. At the Human level Batswana (The people of Botswana) follow the principle of “Botho”. “Botho” is an example of a social contract of mutual respect, responsibility and accountability that members of society have toward each other and defines a process for earning respect by first giving it, and to gain empowerment by empowering others. 

Technicalities 

The Trade and Development Board of UNCTAD held a discussion on the Least Developed Countries Report 2016 which amongst others had argued that graduation of the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) is “not the winning post of a race to cease being an LDC, but rather the first milestone in the marathon of development.” According to the report, it is not enough simply to target achievement of the criteria needed for graduation, it is also necessary to establish the foundations needed to maintain development progress beyond graduation. “Focusing exclusively on the graduation indicators risks diverting attention and resources from other aspects of development that will be critical long after graduation has been achieved,” it said. 

It said the current international economic scenario remains lacklustre due to a combination of weak demand in developed countries as a result of stagnant real wages, the continuing slowdown of international trade, a sharp decline in growth or even recession in many developing countries, high or rising debt in both developed and developing countries, and depressed commodity prices. 

“This international environment will continue to weigh down on the outlook for economic growth in LDCs and, hence, on their prospects for graduation and sustainable development.” 

Wasi Ahmed, a columnist, told Dhaka Courier that beside exports, Bangladesh will also be hit when it comes to foreign aid. Concessionary financing from the International Development Association, the part of the World Bank that helps the world’s poorest countries, and multilateral assistance with special benefits will also not be available upon graduation and attaining the middle-income status. The benefit of technical cooperation and other forms of assistance will also be affected. Concessional borrowing is another important area to be hit hard. As per the WB criteria, if a country’s per capita income remains above $1,400 for three consecutive years, the rate of interest would surge to about 2 per cent from 0.75 percent — a facility that Bangladesh currently enjoys like all other LDCs. 

But according to a recent Committee for Development Policy Secretariat Report, several stakeholders suggest that the improvement to Bangladesh’s image on the world stage from graduation would give it a better credit rating, allowing it to borrow more cheaply on world markets. Moody’s rating agency currently ranks the country as Ba3, which is below investment grade and assigns Bangladesh’s bond the ‘high-yield’ or ‘junk’ status, although the outlook is stable. Infrastructure investment is a pressing priority given the country’s traffic congestion, high and growing population and the rapid pace of development. 

Bangladesh’s LDC graduation is certainly not the end of the story. Although a move on to the next rung of development is a major milestone in the nation’s history, pressing economic challenges remain, such as how to raise wages for the working poor without losing international competitiveness. Bangladesh’s comparative advantage currently lies in cheapness; yet low wages by definition perpetuate poverty. Although extreme poverty has fallen, many people remain in low-paying jobs. Population pressures, climate change and the automation of production are ever-present challenges. How the country navigates its journey into middle-income status will be one of the defining issues of the coming decade. Leave a Reply