Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina receiving the Guard of Honour from a contingent of Singapore Armed Forces at the gate of Istana in Singapore 

Bangladesh and Singapore have enjoyed friendly bilateral relations for over four decades since the establishment of diplomatic ties in February 1972. Even so, the recent visit of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina to Singapore held the possibility of elevating the bond of friendship and amity between the two nations to a higher plane. And in this, it surely delivered, by setting the stage for increased cooperation in a variety of areas, like public-private partnership, air connectivity, trade, investment and energy. 

On March 12, Bangladesh and Singapore signed two Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for collaboration over Public Private Partnership (PPP) and air services. 

The instruments were signed following an official meeting between the prime ministers of the two countries at Istana, the official residence and office of the President of Singapore, and also the working office of the Prime Minister of Singapore. Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Singapore Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong witnessed the signing ceremony. 

The two MoUs are one on Public Private Partnership signed between International Enterprise Singapore and the Public Private Partnership Authority of the Prime Minister’s Office of Bangladesh and another Confidential MoU to expand air services between the two nations. 

On March 13, the trade bodies and government agencies of Bangladesh and Singapore signed four Memorandums of Understanding (MoUs) for collaboration over ICT, trade and investment. 

The signing ceremony was held at the opening programme of the Bangladesh-Singapore Business Forum 2018, which was jointly organised by International Enterprise Singapore, Singapore Business Federation and Bangladesh Business Chamber of Singapore (BDCham) at the Shangri-La Hotel in Singapore. 

According to the MoU, the two agencies will work together to facilitate the entry of Singaporean companies, including SMEs, into Bangladesh. 

The second MoU on Digital leadership, Innovation and Digital Government Transformation was signed between ICT Division of Bangladesh and Institute of Systems Science of the National University of Singapore (NUS-ISS). ICT Division Secretary Subir Kishore Choudhury and NUS-ISS CEO Khoong Chan Meng signed the deal on behalf of their respective parties. 

As per the MoU, both parties will collaborate on developing and delivering capacity building programmes for public service officers in support of the Digital Bangladesh Vision 2021 Programme and provide advisory and consultancy services for relevant national projects and initiatives. 

Besides, another MoU was signed between the Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FBCCI) and Singapore Manufacturing Federation (SMF) to strengthen business relations and promote economic cooperation. FBCCI President Mohammad Shafiul Islam and SMF President Douglas Foo signed the deal. 

The remaining MoU was signed between the Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry (MCCI), Dhaka and SMF to strengthen business relations and promote economic cooperation. 

During the visit, Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina urged Singapore to request their fellow Asean member Myanmar to resolve the Rohingya crisis quickly as it is a big problem and burden on Bangladesh. 

She made the call during her meetings with Singapore President HalimahYacob and Prime Minister Lee HsienLoong at the Istana. 

As Singapore and Myanmar are the chair and member of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) respectively, the country can convince the Myanmar government that the region’s stability and development depend on the repatriation of Rohingyas, Hasina told the Singaporean leaders. 

Mentioning that Bangladesh has already signed an agreement with Myanmar on the repatriation of Rohingyas, the Prime Minister said the implementation of the agreement was being delayed for many reasons. 

Hasina invited the Singaporean President and the Prime Minister to visit Bangladesh this year and both of them accepted the invitations. 

Mentioning that Bangladesh and Singapore share similar viewpoints on many issues of global concern, Hasina said both the countries take mutually supportive positions in international fora, including in the UN.