Reaz Ahmad talking to Shahabuddin Ahmed - UNB 

A journey of peace (SHANTI) that he initiated through an art exhibition back in December 2015 in the Indian city of Kolkata is now culminating in Dhaka. Thirty-two pieces of artworks by Bangladesh’s best known artist of international repute – Shahabuddin – are now put on display at a month-long exhibition titled ‘SHANTI’ that Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy in Dhaka and Ganges Art Gallery, Kolkata have jointly organised. It will run until April 18 at the Shilpakala Academy. 

The art maestro, rated among the league of top-50 painters in modern art world – termed the Dhaka show as culmination of an artist’s journey of peace through arts. “This ‘SHANTI’ journey comes from Kolkata to Mumbai to Delhi to Dhaka. It’s a journey of peace,” the Independence Day Award winner artist Shahabuddin told UNB in an exclusive interview taken at his Kalabagan art studio in the city recently. UNB is the media partner of Shahabuddin’s ongoing exhibition. 

Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina inaugurated the Dhaka exhibition on Monday last at National Art Gallery while former Indian President Pranab Mukherjee inaugurated ‘SHANTI’ in Kolkata on December 12, 2015.The current one is Shahabuddin’s first solo exhibition at the Bangladesh Shilpakala Academy after a long time – last one being held back in 1983. 

“You’ll get to see dominance of the portraits of four great personalities – Mahatma Gandhi, Bangabandhu, Rabindranath Tagore, and Kazi Nazrul Islam in my SHANTI exhibition. All of them had their lifelong journeys for establishing peace,” said the 68-year old artist, a recipient of the one of France’s highest civilian award. 

Shahabuddin said, “This is not the same world we’re living in today….in one way it’s getting more liberal, open but at the same time very selfish (narrow focused) too. We’ve to share our mutual interests and only then peace shall prevail. I like to reach out the message of solidarity.” 

Here are the excerpts of the interview: 

Reaz Ahmad – What is the message you want to convey through your exhibition, SHANTI? I’m sure you have a philosophy behind it. 

Shahabuddin – Visitors will be able to see prominent portraits of four individuals – 
Mahatma Gandhi, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Rabindranath Tagore and Kazi Nazrul Islam. They all spent all their lifetime attaining peace. I just wanted to follow their footsteps, as we are all from the Subcontinent and are from the same origin. 

A lot of changes have occurred in the world today, it is not what it used to be like. On one side, it is very liberal, but very selfish. If we can share the concept of selflessness, we can attain peace. It is a lot like solidarity. I want to finally show this to my people. 

Reaz Ahmad – So this means that you have plans to spread this message of peace across the world as well. 

Shahabuddin – Absolutely. Besides, the message will get across as we’ve a huge population (a sizeable part of world population) already in India and Bangladesh. 

Reaz Ahmad – I want to move to another question. You are an artist, a human being and a peace bearer. Another identity of yours which we are proud of is that you were also a valiant freedom fighter during Bangladesh’s War of Liberation in 1971. The war seems to be a recurring theme in your artworks. How do you see the importance of 1971 as a theme among Bangladeshi artists? 

Shahabuddin – Speaking for me, one can easily notice the significance I put on 1971 in my artworks. It is not that it is not noticeable among other artists. I think most Bangladeshi artists have used it as a theme, even in subjects such as boats, flowers or even a banana tree. 

Reaz Ahmad – Somehow all these are related to the war. 

Shahabuddin – Correct. I myself was a freedom fighter, and it is because of that, that I am recognised internationally. So you can understand that from my head to toes, the theme lies within me. 

Reaz Ahmad – If we look at your artworks, some say that a hint of Francis Baconian influence can be found, as well as the European style of art. Some say that your figures follow Baroque style. Is there any fascination for these particular styles? 

Shahabuddin – Any form of art, be it fine arts, music or literature – needs to follow a style. If a style is not present, it means that the work has not matured. All this has attracted me, influenced me, but then I made my own style, while trying to remain like family, or a Gharana . If one does not belong to a particular Gharana , then they have a problem. The same goes for painting. The main fact is that it is a certain stroke, or use of a recurring colour or border that differentiates an artist from another. Their individuality is deduced from their works – their childhood, their origins and so on. Some can be shy, some can be aggressive – but it has to be shown through one’s work. 

Reaz Ahmad – Are you undertaking any special project at the moment? Or creating anything new, being the creative individual that you are? 

Shahabuddin – The Rohingya ordeal is a big issue now. In that context, I would say it is very dangerous, but the way we and our government have accepted them, that is humane. Many speak about humanity, but proving it is more difficult. For the first time Europe is on our side, which has stirred my conscience. I have drawn several artworks on the Rohingyas, and will continue to do so, as I believe this will be a massive task. I wish to hold an exhibition on those artworks in Paris. 

Reaz Ahmad – There is a global audience for it, given the high number of displaced Rohingyas. Apart from Europe, many other nations as well have praised Bangladesh for its role. We will be looking forward to a great body of work to come out. What is your opinion about the works of the current generation of Bangladeshi artists? 

Shahabuddin – I frequently follow their works. In the past 10 years, not many changes took place. The quality is fixed in one place, not moving up or down. If it goes down, it will be because of political instability. I am hopeful that once there is stability, the quality of work will gradually increase, as India had at one point jumped in terms of creative brilliance (15 years back), but now it is stuck. But in Bangladesh, things are slowly picking up. The problems faced by a small country like Bangladesh is enough to jerk an artist’s conscience. The War of Liberation is also involved in it – although the current generation was born after the war, their works are the results of our independence. The evidence of strong youth can be apparent in our arts. But maturity in art requires time, at least 60-70 years. 

Reaz Ahmad – How about comparing Bangladeshi art with the international standard? Have we reached that level? 

Shahabuddin – Undoubtedly we have. In simple words, Bangladesh have not been able to reach the final rounds of the World Cup or the Olympics, but the picture is different in the art scene. Many African and Middle Eastern countries pale before Bangladesh when it comes to art. Many don’t even have fine arts schools, which is why I say that we are at a certain level. At this moment, art is the only subject where Bangladesh has a strong global footprint. We say other things such as garments, but those are temporary. Art is not a daily matter. Bangladesh ranks well above African, Latin American and Middle Eastern countries. 

Reaz Ahmad – Do you think there is an environment of freedom for Bangladeshi artists? 

Shahabuddin – Plenty. They sometimes create restrictions for themselves. 

Reaz Ahmad – You were mentored by Shilpacharya Zainul Abedin. Do you have any fond memories about him? 

Shahabuddin – In 1974, when famine had begun and the government had started to distribute aid materials such as rice, wheat and others by helicopters in areas such as Faridpur, Jhenaidah, Pirojpur – areas most badly affected by famine. Once, Shilpacharya told me that he had drawn about famine back in 1943, but he wanted to see how things were like this time. So he told me to arrange if they both could sit somewhere in a helicopter and witness. Once we were aboard, I carried his sketchbook and a small bag he used to carry. He asked me where my things were, I replied that I could not gather strength to draw about famine. We visited Faridpur first, where aid was distributed in the water-clogged city. Next stop was Pirojpur, and then Jhenaidah. Over there, a marketplace was water-logged, so there was no place for the helicopter to land. The people waiting for aid were being instructed to disperse and make way for landing. 

After landing, we both were observing aid distribution from a distance, knee-deep in flood water. I will not forget that sight, when Zainul Abedin told me that “Look, Shahabuddin, look closely, this will help you in future.” I did not understand what he had meant back then but I clearly understand it now, why he said it. Then I had overlooked the pale sight of impoverished people, but now I can see what I should have seen back then. 

Reaz Ahmad – Based on what you just said now, is the spirit of humanity still exist among today’s artists, given the horrors of terrorism, the Middle East crisis, arms race and other national differences? Are they able to reflect that through their artworks? 

Shahabuddin – It is difficult to portray that adequately, but artists are always the first to protest such atrocities. Regarding terrorism in Bangladesh, it came much later, as compared to other countries. The countries where it occurred first, why and who are behind it, we all know but do not say anything about it, because we do not have that power. This saddens me. 

When we see something like this happening in Bangladesh, we react fast but fail to point out who started it. It is not because of a global phenomenon, it is completely man-made. The people of Bangladesh are indeed peace-loving and do not like such things. There will be always some people to think otherwise. The main reason is economy. The world is fast becoming materialistic, especially money-driven, which was not there before. If Bangladesh can control this, then it can progress. If we can say that “yes, we need money but not so much,” then we can truly progress. 

People around the world are running madly behind money. The demand of Bangladesh is not as much, and should remain that way. 

For video visit: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_S_Rff1bHtA Leave a Reply