Further testimonials 

A press conference was held ahead of Shahabuddin’s exhibition opening, on March 18, where the artist had said that Bengal is ahead of other countries in the subcontinent when it comes to artworks. He also said that although the styles of artworks vary from region to region, a sense of harmony exists between the artistic “gharanas”. 

Director General of BSA Liaquat Ali Lucky said it had long been their dream to exhibit Shahabuddin’s artworks for the new generation who is not familiar with the artistic prowess of one of Bangladesh’s contemporary master painters. 

He considered the artist to be one of the few individuals who had protested the gruesome murders of Bangabandhu and most of his family in August 1975 through his art works. 

Professor Abdul Mannan, a former MP, said Shahabuddin cannot be compared with anyone else. His patriotism is also unparalleled, he added, as he refused to submit his Bangladeshi passport despite being given citizenship by a foreign country. 

Smita Bajoria, director of Ganges Art Gallery, said an artist of Shahabuddin’s stature has the ability to transcend borders, as he is equally popular in India as he is in Bangladesh. 

Among others, Jahangir Hossain Chowdhury, secretary, BSA, Ashraful Alam Paplu, director, department of fine arts at BSA and Nahar Khan, Director, UNB were also present on the occasion. 

During his speech, Shahabuddin also refuted popular claims that he only chooses political subjects. Given his experience as a freedom fighter in Bangladesh’s War of Liberation in 1971, he had witnessed a lot of harrowing incidents which led to his use of particular individuals, such as the Father of the Nation, Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman. 

He recollected how he was instantly mesmerised by Bangabandhu’s oratory talent. “He represented all of us, for anyone to think I chose him purely for political purposes are mistaken. As an artist, I perceive everyone and everything through an artistic standpoint, which is how things should be.” 

Among others, Jahangir Hossain Chowdhury, secretary, BSA, Ashraful Alam Paplu, director, department of fine arts at BSA and Nahar Khan, Director, UNB were also present on the occasion. 

A protégée of late Prime Minister Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, Shahabuddin is a revered national figure and recipient of the prestigious Independence Day Award from the Bangladesh government for his contribution as a freedom fighter in the 1971 Liberation War of Bangladesh.