Bangladesh vs India T20Is head to head Published on: 12:41   
Bangladesh and India are facing each other in the final in the seven-match Nidahas Trophy tri-nation T20I tournament at R Premadasa Stadium in Colombo on Sunday. India have successful previous tours while Bangladesh recent performances were not up to standards. The Tigers were invited to bat first as India won the toss. The final clash has become the tightest contest as Rohit Sharma-led India registered three wins — two against Bangladesh — of their four matches in the league stage to move into the final as favourites. But, Bangladesh’s tenacity of surviving in the final race with two victories, including a record chase win of 215, against hosts Sri Lanka was a great threat for giant India. Sri Lanka had home advantage and conditions. As all cricket fans know that in today’s cricket, on home soil, every country is a very tough opposition to beat. Bangladesh also have home alike conditions but they are with out the availability of Mashrafee. It is a real test of all their youngsters of real pressures. On contrary, India came to Sri Lanka with a point to prove that they are still a good team with out their seniors. India have their some experienced and most of young players like Rohit Sharma, Shikhar Dhawan, Lokesh Rahul, Suresh Raina, Manish Pandey, Dinesh Karthik, Deepak Hooda, Washington Sundar, Yuzvendra Chahal, Shardul Thakur, Jaydev Unadkat and Rishabh Pant. Both wanted to win the match specially Bangladesh as they lost 1st T20 to India. Bangladesh had to relay on experience of Shakib, Tamim, Mahamdullah and Mushfiq along with on the talent of young players like Shabbir, Liton Das and Mustafizur Rahman. Skipper Shakib al Hasan said that they are eyeing to win their maiden Twenty20 trophy by playing cricket without carrying any pressure whatsoever when they take on title aspirants India in the final in the ongoing Nidahas Cup at Colombo. On the back of two dramatic wins over hosts Sri Lanka, a rejuvenated Bangladesh had a spring in their stride, and there was a big chance they could stand in the way of India and the Nidahas Trophy triumph. On the other hand, Indian Dinesh Karthik said that they are not taking anything for granted against Bangladesh despite having a clean slate against them as they won all their seven matches against Tigers in the shortest format. Recent Updates