Cynthia Nixon to run for NY governor Published on: 2:40 pm - Thursday | March 22, 2018 
Currentnews.com.bd 

Sex and the City star Cynthia Nixon has announced she is launching a bid for New York governor.Nixon, who played Miranda Hobbs on the HBO series, plans to challenge incumbent Governor Andrew Cuomo for the Democratic Party nomination. 
The actress announced her plans to challenge the incumbent governor on Twitter on Monday. The 51-year-old liberal activist, who had long been tipped to run, has never held elected office. 
Who is Cynthia Nixon? 
Ms Nixon played a career-oriented lawyer from 1998-2004 on television show Sex and the City. She won an Emmy for her work in 2004. It was presented to her by another television celebrity – Donald Trump, whose presidency she has recently railed against. 
Ms Nixon married her wife Christine Marinoni in 2012. Ms Marinoni, an LGBTQ advocate, worked for Democratic New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio until she resigned a month ago. The couple both contributed financially to his mayoral race. 
What’s her platform? 
In Monday’s campaign launch video, the actress said: “I lov e New York. I’ve never wanted to live anywhere else, but something has to change.”The actress listed several campaign priorities in the clip. 
“We want our government to work again, on healthcare, ending mass incarceration, fixing our broken subway,” she said. “We are sick of politicians who care more about headlines and power than they do about us. It can’t just be business as usual anymore.” 
Ms Nixon has long championed access to quality education in New York.”I’m a proud public school graduate,” she said, “and a prouder public school parent. I was given chances I just don’t see most of New York’s kids today. Our leaders are letting us down. We are the most unequal state in the entire country, with both incredible wealth and extreme poverty.” 
Can she win? 
If elected, Nixon would become the first female and first openly gay governor of New York state. Her fledgling campaign brands her as a progressive alternative to the centrist Mr Cuomo. 
The 60-year-old incumbent governor, who is chasing his third term, is often touted as a possible presidential hopeful in 2020. He has dismissed concerns about potential challengers in the Democratic primary on 13 September. 
But he could be vulnerable on his political left flank. The Nixon campaign team will take heart from the unexpectedly stiff challenge Mr Cuomo faced in his 2014 re-election from a little-known college lecturer who also positioned herself as a liberal Democrat. 
-BBC