‘Domestic T-20 is the need of hour’ Published on: 11:18   
Bangladesh’s ace all-rounder Shakib al Hasan believes that if Bangladesh Cricket Board (BCB) can organize their proposed Twenty20 tournament among the top-six clubs of the Dhaka Premier League it will be immensely helpful. Shakib, who turned 31 today, is expected to visit Kishoreganj with BCB president Nazmul Hasan to inaugurate a T-20 tournament. Pace bowler Mustafizur Rahman is expected to accompany the birthday boy, who had been carrying the nation’s cricket identity across the cricket fraternity. Due to his busy schedule, Shakib on March 23 celebrated his 31 st birthday through an occasion organized by his fans. The current Test and T-20 skipper emphasized on the necessity of holding a separate domestic T-20 tournament for Bangladesh cricketers in order to improve their performance in the shortest format of the gameThe urge came within days after the Tigers returned home following a heart-breaking defeat in the Nidahas T20I tri-nation series final against India at R Premadasa Cricket Stadium in Colombo Sunday. Earlier BCB announced that they are planning to host a separate T-20 tournament that will only feature local cricketers to help them learn how to progress in the shorter format. BCB was mulling with the idea of launching the tournament with the top-six clubs from the Dhaka Premier League though as off today there is no sign of any further development in this regard. The plan of holding such tournament had come from the BCB after facing criticism over allowing five overseas cricketers in the playing XI of the BPL teams in the 2017 season held from November-December. ‘I heard the board will organize a T20 tournament only for the locals, besides the BPL, comprising the six clubs of the Dhaka Premier Division Cricket League,’ Shakib told reporters at the birthday bash. ‘The tournament, if it takes place, should help Bangladesh cricketers to improve in the shortest format,’ said Shakib. Bangladesh, despite T20Is being their weakest format, had put on sensational performances in the series also involving host Sri Lanka, held in Colombo from March 4 to March 18. The Tigers had advanced to the final based on their nail-biting wins over the Lankans. Shakib claimed that his side has come a long way in the T20I format and playing the final of the earlier this month in Sri Lanka was a testament to that.’We have proved after reaching the final of the Nidahas series that Bangladesh can play in this format [T20I] as well and it’s important for us to continue the growth,’ said Shakib. Recent Updates