Teletalk yet to call tender for 4G Published on: 1:33   
Currentnews.com.bd 

One month after the launch of the 4G service in the country, state owned telecom operator Teletalk has not been able to call the tenders for the service where other mobile operators going ahead with the new generation of services. 
The managing director Kazi Golam Kuddus did not want to talk about it. However, a project official of the state-owned operator said that they hoped the top officials of the operator will take initiatives to take the service into people’s hand but no progress has been made yet. 
Sources said junior officials of the telecom operator were suggested to take the preparations about this and they repeatedly told the higher authority to take action after getting the license. But the situation doesn’t change. Now It is believed that the Teletalk will fall behind form the service and will loss acceptance to the subscribers. 
Earlier in the parliament, Post, Telecommunications and Information Technology Minister Mustafa Jabbar said that Teletalk will come with the 4G service in May next. But officials say they have no idea when the service will launch. 
Teletalk launched 3G services in August 2012, more than 13 manth before from the other competitors taking the benefit of the state-owned company. But in case of 4G service, the situation is just the opposite. Many officials feel that lake of interest and initiatives pushing the operator back. 
A few days ago, the company had demanded Tk 700 crore for the government to update its network. Although the money has been allocated, but the Ministry of Finance did not release the money.after that they even want to update at least 1,000 sites in their own money but that did not come possible. The board of the operator has asked to invite international tenders. This means the operators will have to wait several more months. 
Seeking anonymity, a manager of the operator said, the operator had suffer big hurdle to to submit Tk10 crore for the 4G license fee. The operator now has 44 lakh active connections, of which more than half of the SIM has 3G connection. 
Teletalk’s customer base is fast shrinking as the state-run mobile operator continues to lag far behind the private carriers in terms of network quality and pr oduct offerings.Earlier, Shyam Sunder Sikder, secretary of the telecommunication division has said, the government is concerned about the operator’s standing in the industry. 
The subscriber base of state-run cell-phone operator Teletalk is set to see a sharp fall if it fails to improve its service standard, says a recent report. The findings came from the impact evaluation survey report conducted by the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation Division (IMED) of the Planning Commission on a project titled ‘Introduction of 3G technology and extension of 2.5G network’. 
The report says Teletalk subscribers are now switching over to other mobile phone operators to get better services because of disruption in its network. During the survey, Teletalk subscribers said the standard of its service is not up to the mark as its network coverage does not work well, particularly after midnight. 
Besides, the subscribers who took part in the survey alleged that the number of Teletalk customer centers are very few in number while it is hard to find out its recharging outlets. “The 3G network coverage doesn’t exist in all areas as the network coverage functions well only inside the city, but outside the cities and towns, there is no 3G coverage,” the report reveals. Recent Updates