Bangladesh fail to break the jinx Published on: 12:33   

Bangladesh failed to break their final jinx, as Dinesh Karthik’s cameo including a last ball six helped India earn a thrilling four wicket win over them in the Nidahas Trophy at Colombo on Sunday. 
Part time medium pacer Soumya Sarkar failed to keep his nerve while bowling the last ball as he served up an over-pitched delivery outside off that Karthik crashed with a flat six over extra cover to register their historic win. 
India needed five runs in the final ball and Karthik smashed Soumya to give his side breath-taking victory and singlehandedly Dinesh Karthik struck an unbeaten 29 off eight balls to help India clinch the crown of Nidahas Trophy in Colombo on Sunday. 
Over the years Bangladesh have won a number of bilateral series both at home and abroad and a couple of league-format tournaments involving lower-ranked sides, but one thing that they have not yet done is to win the final of a tournament involving three or more teams. 
They were looking to ma ke history before Dinesh appeared in the middle that probably changed the total complexion of the game as the wicket-keeper batsman hit Rubel Hossain two sixes and as many fours and scored 22 runs in the 19th over after Mustafizur Rahman delivered a magical maiden-wicket over in the 18th to bring Bangladesh back in the contest. 
Indian skipper Rohit Sharma made 56 off 42 balls and meaningful contributions from Lokesh Rahul (24) and Manish Pandey (28) gave India an edge to win the mat ch.Bangladeshi bowlers fought back strongly with taking wickets at crucial times but it all went in vain at the end. Rubel picked up two wickets for the Tigers. 
Bangladesh skipper Sakib al Hasan said that he couldn’t asked for more and hope these experiences will help them win a tournament someday.”It hurts but we can learn a lot from this too. All credit to DK. We can take a lot of positives from this game and someday we can come out victorious,’ Sakib said during the prize giving ceremony. 
‘You can’t ask for more in a final like this. I thought we played superbly, anybody could have won the game, but India held their nerves well,” says Sakib.”We wanted ot bowl our best bowler in the 18th and 19th. But even if Rubel had gone for 15 an over, we could have handled it. He didn’t miss his length too much but credit to Dinesh Karthik to just come out and hit sixes from his first ball. 
We knew 166 would be tough to defend, we had a good feeling though, everyone did their best, gave their 100%. It hurts to lose, but we played well. [Mehidy only one over] It was pre-planned, who we wanted to bowl, but all of our bowlers can bowl. 
We can still take lots of positives from here and someday we can be on the winning side”Earlier, Sabbir Rahman struck 77 off 50 balls and Mehedi Hasan m ade a late cameo of unbeaten 19 of seven balls as Bangladesh scored 166-8 against India. 
Sabbir smashed seven fours and four sixes to lift the Tigers after they were held to 33-3 in the sixth over.Mehedi hit two fours and one six off Shardul Thakur in the final over to give Bangladesh a challenging total against India who earlier sent the Tigers to bat first. 
Indian spinner Yuzvendra Chahal bagged three wickets while Jaydev Unadkat claimed two wickets for India.The Tigers lost opener Liton Das for 11 in the fourth over off Washington while Chaha l dismissed Tamim Iqbal (15) and Soumya Sarkar (one) in the next over to take India to the driving seat. 
Mushfiqur Rahim could not continue his good run as he became the third victim of Chahal after scoring only nine runs.Mahmudullah scored 21 off 16 balls but got run-out after having a terrible mix-up with Sabbir.Sakib could only add seven runs before he was run out. Recent Updates