Leave a comment 

Bangladesh’s banking sector has been facing various situations at different times. Sometimes it is short of liquidity, sometimes it has a plethora of liquidity due to lack of demand for borrowing. Again it is often a case of dis-equilibrium between the two — growing demand for loans and scarcity of funds and so on. At the moment a severe shortage of liquidity has created pressure on the banking sector. Finance Minister AMA Muhith recently noted in the Jatiya Sangsad that seven banks of Bangladesh were operating with capital shortfalls amounting to over Tk 94 billion until September last year. He revealed that the total amount of capital deficit in state-owned banks Sonali, Rupali, Janata and BASIC was more than Tk 76.26 billion, while privately-owned Commerce Bank, Farmers Bank, and ICB Islamic Bank‘s total capital deficits were over Tk 17.91 billion. 

This huge dearth in liquidity in the country’s banking sector has not been caused by normal demand and supply function. Neither is it that the banks have reduced the rates of interest of loans. And there has been no sudden and drastic increase in demand for bank loans that has caused the banks’ liquidity dearth. Disturbingly enough, this crisis has been brought in primarily by injudiciousness and sheer mismanagement on the part of those who have administered the banks. The authorities have quite simply failed to put a hold on non-performing loans despite the fact that this malady has been hurting the sector for quite a long period now. What is more, every now and then we have been coming across news of big scams and serious irregularities in loan disbursements. These clearly show that the goal of establishing good governance, as has been being advocated by economists and banking sector experts to restore discipline in the sector, is yet to be reached. 

One must admit that the national economy bears the brunt of ineptitude and mismanagement at the administrative as well as regulatory levels. Quite naturally, the shortage of liquidity in banks has already started metastasizing into other sectors of the economy. As banks have already increased their already high lending rates significantly, investors and consumers are suffering. Moreover, non-bank financial institutions and capital markets, which rely mostly on banks for funds, are in a liquidity crisis of the kind they have never faced before.