To Germany , with hate 

The fragility of Bangladesh’s democracy has been held up once again, with the release of the latest iteration of German think-tank Bertelsmann Stiftung’s democracy index, known as the Transformation Index, that has come out biannually since 2006. Bertelsmann Stiftung or the Bertelsmann Foundation is the foundation arm of German media conglomerate Bertelsmann, one of the powerhouses of European media with their fingerprint in everything from opinion-setting titles like Der Spiegel (one of many newspapers and magazines in their stable) to the Europe-wide tv network RTL and a slew of firms in the emerging digital journalism and marketing space. They even own Penguin Random House, the publishers. 

As a rule, their work tends to be very pro-market, pro-European and pro-democracy. They can even be perceived to be neoliberal at times, with the store they put by democracy and free markets. They have at times drawn complaints of being ‘unaccountable’, under the very liberal German laws governing foundations and the scope of work they’re allowed to take on. 

The Transformation Index, as it is for many other firms that do a democracy index, is their flagship project (as it is for the Heritage Foundation and Chatham House) and as such, least likely to be affected by any political biases or otherwise on their part. As it is, they profess to be politically neutral, disregarding the political implications of their overwhelmingly pro-market stance, that sees them usually engage only with very pro-market forces on the left, of the so-called ‘pink’ variety (not quite red). All in all though, it is difficult, almost impossible to discern what their ‘motivations’ might be for distorting the reality regarding the state of democracy in Bangladesh, as the government has alleged, besides asserting that Bangladesh has nothing to learn about democracy from “the nation of Hitler”. 

In the Transformation Index 2018, Bangladesh has been grouped, alongside Lebanon, Mozambique, Nicaragua and Uganda, as one of five countries that ‘no longer meet minimum standards for democracy,’ – a damning indictment. These countries, where democracy has been gradually undermined for years, are under autocratic rule, and it was often shortcomings in the quality of elections that tipped the balance, the report said. 

Since 2006, the Transformation Index of the Bertelsmann Stiftung has been analysing and monitoring the quality of democracy, the market economy and governance in 129 countries. The latest study’s assessment period was from February 1, 2015 to January 31, 2017. 

Of the 129 countries studied, the index classified 58 as autocracies, up from 55 in 2016. It also classified 71 as democracies, whereas the figure was 74 in 2016. 

‘But it is not so much the slight increase in the number of autocracies that is worrying. More problematic is the fact that civil rights are being curtailed and the rule of law undermined in an increasing number of democracies as well,’ the report said. Former beacons of democratisation such as Brazil, Poland and Turkey are among the countries that have been fallen the most in the Transformation Index, it said. Only Burkina Faso and Sri Lanka were making significant progress towards democracy during the period under review. 

By contrast, there are 13 countries, including Mozambique, Turkey and Yemen, where the political situation has become significantly worse, the report said. Bangladesh stood 79th out of 129 countries, with a score of 5.11 out of 10. The index scale ranges from 1 (worst) to 10 (best). Broken down, Bangladesh stood 84th with a score of 4.27 on the governance index, 80th scoring 5.61 in the political transformation index and 64th scoring 5.61 in the economic performance index. So the report acknowledges that Bangladesh’s economic performance has been relatively commendable in the period under review, even as political freedoms have taken a hit for the worse – a conclusion that would seem to ring true with the lived reality for most Bangladeshis. 

Another point the report focuses on will ring true with Bangladeshis, and that is the poor quality of elections in 2014. The EC’s role in the process is also highlighted – one reason behind the poor quality of elections in 2014 was the almost mute, even malleable role played by the EC. The public will recall the way in which political parties were not allowed to withdraw from the election according to their wishes. Subsequently the EC’s role has been brought into question in various local government elections – although these were almost all held under the previous EC led by Rakibuddin Ahmad.