A man called Julian Bangladeshi 

Nothing is moving right in Dhaka. Everything movables are losing their pace in a city, now infamous for its nightmarish gridlock. Dhaka commuters are at the mercy of traffic – they must be lucky to get it thin or in most cases they’re highly likely to lose valuable time and stamina by getting stuck in the congested roads. What’s the cost of this ‘valuable time’ – it’s really enormous. World Bank calculated last year that congestion in Dhaka eats up 3.2 million working hours each day. Last week the Accident Research Institute (ARI) of Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) put the figure at an astounding 5 million working hours a day. A decade back average traffic speed was 21 km an hour (kmph) in Dhaka city. And then the speed dropped to 7 kmph, slightly above the walking speed, according to a World Bank analysis shared at an international conference held in Dhaka in July last year. Now BUET study says the average speed of vehicles during rush hours has come down to 5kmph, which is practically just one kmph faster than average walking speed. So we really need to rethink Dhaka’s traffic management, traffic volume, road capacity and our level of skills, plans, and efficiency in dealing with a problem of this magnitude. We’ve to think how do we justify spending millions of dollars on import of fuels to run vehicles that are capable of outpacing pedestrians by just one km per hour. 

The congestion causes an annual economic loss in the range of Tk. 20,000 crore and Tk. 55,000 crore, according to BUET. In other words, the mean annual financial cost of congestion is Tk. 37,000 crore. But putting a proper traffic management in place can still lessen such damage up to 60 percent, meaning an annual loss of Tk. 22,200 crore can be saved. Dr. Moazzem Hossain, who teaches civil engineering at BUET, stated this while presenting a research outcome at a city roundtable last week. Currently Dhaka have a large fleet of 6,000 public buses, many of which are in rundown condition, of course, for catering to the commuters whereas, BUET analysis finds out that 2,500 buses should suffice to cater the same service with a proper planning and monitoring in place. The main problem lies in limited number of arterials, manual traffic signal operation, bottlenecks in signal junctions, high-rise commercial complexes and markets beside arterials without sufficient driveways, illegal occupation of roads and footpaths and plying of different modes of transports with varying speeds on same lanes. Such mismanagement of Dhaka road results a great deal of economic damage and psychical and mental health impact. Apart from the lost work hours and economic loses, a great number of road accidents occurred in Dhaka city due to the transportation mismanagement. 

The transportation system can be disciplined by creating separate lanes for different vehicles especially for bus, freeing footpaths for pedestrians and ensuring parking-free roads, no-stopping zones for busy areas, building some parking zones for buses and cars and so one. Probably Dhaka is a unique city in the world in the sense that as many as 200 bus companies are there to operate public transport system here. Too many cooks spoil the broth here. There are functionally no rules of the game on city streets as far as plying of buses are concerned. Everyone is at liberty to get in and disembark from buses at any point wherever they wish – be it right in middle of a busy road. No traffic rules whatsoever apply. It’s a wonder to see how buses having no backlights, side mirrors, windshield and proper interiors manage fitness tests and ply on Dhaka roads without much of a ‘regulatory trouble’ whatsoever. In their ‘friendly’ competitions on which goes last and carries the most passengers, the drivers of these ramshackle buses hardly bother about any damages caused by one hitting the other from the sides or from the behind. There is almost nearly none to think of public safety in this environment. 

Many experts have their full doubts that lots of flyovers and metro rails will not see much of a success in minimising the chaos without properly managing the city’s existing transportation systems. There is a question of capacity too. The way Dhaka is being allowed to pull more people from the rural-to-urban out migration in each passing day – it’s destined to reach a choking point sooner than later. Decent ralisation can be the best solution for the urban problems because over density of population is responsible for failing to provide them with quality services. Some initiatives that show early potentials to minimize Dhaka’s traffic congestion are highly likely to be nonfunctional if people continue to come to the capital. World Bank says in an analysis that Dhaka’s urban development has not kept up with the city’s rapid growth, resulting in a messy and uneven urbanization process and lack of adequate planning has led to poor livability. Dhaka is only one percent of the country’s total land area but its contribution to GDP is 36 percent and it has created 44 percent of the country’s total employment. In some estimates, population in Dhaka is increasing fast and it will have more than 30 million people by 2030. According to the WB analysis36 percent of the country’s urban population live in greater Dhaka which has become one of the world’s most densely populated cities. At a time when Bangladesh is graduating from LDC to a developing economy, the country must manage Dhaka’s urban growth. 

What if there was a road that could move by itself! How about a moving road of long conveyor belt that will stop at certain points for people to get on and off as per their destinations. A filmmaker toyed with this idea he conceived few months back for quite some time now but not much of success until recently. In a bid to give the commuters a respite from the grinding halt of city traffic, government finally took note of the ‘Moving Road’ concept of film director Abu Sayeed. Instructed by the government the Chairman of Bangladesh Road Transport Authority (BRTA) recently convened a stakeholders’ meeting in the city to discuss ‘Moving Road.’ 

BRTA invited senior representatives from Dhaka Transport Coordination Authority (DTCA), Roads and Highways Department, two city corporations – DNCC and DSCC, Dhaka Metropolitan Police (DMP), Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology (BUET) and filmmaker Abu Sayeed to that meeting. In late last year Sayeed’s concept drew much enthusiasm and curiosity among general members of the public when he arranged a prototype demonstration of the ‘Moving Road’ at Shilpakala Academy in the city.