Currentnews.com.bd 

Prime Minister Sheikh Has ina in her latest polls campaign yesterday lasted the Bangladesh Nationslit Party (BNP) for taking to the streets to free Khaleda Zia jailed for graft. “Why are they campaigning free Khaleda Zia? The court convicted her for graft and now she is in jail as she plundered money meant for the orphans,” she said. 
Hasina said “In the Holy Quran, Allah also keeps a provision for punishment if the orphans are not given their dues (Haq),” adding that the fund came for orphans in 1991.She alerted the people against voting BNP if they wanted to see the continued development. 
“BNP is the symbol of destruction and corruption … they have even stolen money meant for the orphans … they will destroy the country by resorting to corruption, terrorism and patronizing militants,” she told a massive pre-election rally in Thakurgaon. 
She asked the people gathered for the rally to raise their hands, as a sign of their pledge to vote the Awami League in the December, 2018, parliamentary election. Thousands of people who gathered at the Thakurgaon Government Boys’ High School cheered her and raised their hands, pledging to vote for the Awami League. 
The prime minister said, “If you vote for Boat, we will gift you a Golden Bengal with massive development,” adding that “The symbol of boat means your development and peace. It’ll provide you improved lifestyle.” 
Criticizing BNP leaders, Sheikh Hasina said Khaleda Zia’s two sons looted Tk 980.20 crore from banks, but did not pay back a single penny. 
Coming down hard on BNP Secretary General Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir, she said he is spreading falsehood throughout daily. ”“There should be a limit to spreading falsehood,” she added. The Prime Minister said Fakhrul was State Minister for the Civil Aviation during the BNP regime from 2001 to 2006 when he destroyed Biman. “They can destroy but can’t build anything. They can plunder people’s property, but can’t give them anything.” 
She continued, “He (Fakhrul) is a man of your area, but he shut down Saidpur Airport in Nilphamari when he was the state minister.”Coming to power in 2008, the Awami League government reopened the Saidupur, Rajshahi and Barisal airports, purchased eight aircraft and the process is on to procure two more, Hasina said. 
In her 36-minute speech, she focused on various development activities of the government. “We want to develop the country and change the people’s fate,” she said, adding that no one will remain homeless and hungry in the country. At the rally, the Prime Minister announced to establish a university, a special economic zone, an IT park, a new police station and a hostel for professional women in Thakurgaon. 
She also made some other promises, including providing an inter-city train, for the people of the district.Earlier, the Prime Minister inaugurated 33 development projects and laid the foundation stones of 33 others.AL district unit president AlhajDabirul Islam MP presided over the rally. 
Sheikh Hasina last visited Thakurgaon on September 18, 2001.AL General Secretary and Road Transport and Brides Minister ObaidulQuader, MP, Foreign Minister AH Mahmood Ali, MP, AL presidium member Ramesh Chandra Sen, MP, AL joint general secretaries MahbubulAlam, MP and Jahangir Kabir Nanak, MP, AL organizing secretary Khalid Mahmud Chowdhury MP, among others, addressed the rally. Recent Updates