
Adult Swim 
Rick and Morty 
Today Adult Swim released a surprise April Fool’s Rick and Morty episode (well, it was kind of an episode.) The 11-minute special was called Rick and Morty Bushworld Adventures. But what exactly was this episode? Is it canon? Here’s what you need to know about the special. 
Although Adult Swim hasn’t said officially if this is canon or not, we can probably assume it’s not. Or, at the very least, it’s from a dimension very different from what we’ve seen with C-137 Rick and Morty. The episode was written and produced by Michael Cusack, not Justin Roiland or Dan Harmon. They gave him permission to create the April Fool’s parody, but it appears they weren’t actually involved in the special. This makes it more than likely that the episode won’t be considered canon. 
There is a callback to a previous episode. Rick tells Morty: “It’s a figure of speech. They’re bureaucrats; I don’t respect them.” Morty says that this seems really out of context. And the reason is because when Rick said this before, it was about the Galactic Federation. Rick said the quote during The Rickshank Redemption , which was the first episode of Season 3 (and, interestingly enough, the last April Fool’s episode.) 
So the parody episode does reference a canon episode, but this Australian special definitely doesn’t involve our C-137 Rick and Morty. The official Rick and Morty Twitter refers to them as heading to the Bush Dimension. And they don’t actually go by their same names. According to the description on the video you can purchase from Adult Swim, they are actually named Reek and Mordi. (Reek reminds me a bit of Reek from Game of Thrones , but they’re doesn’t seem to be any connection in the episode itself.) 
The description humorously refers to the episode this way: “On this episode of the critically acclaimed show Bushworld Adventures, now celebrating its 10th season, we join our hero’s Reek and Mordi as they seek out the mysterious Green Cube of Bendigo. Will they succeed?” 
If you really want to make this episode canon, maybe think of it as a TV show on Dimensional Cable, but not involving any characters that C-137 Rick and Morty are going to be meeting any time soon. Or maybe, instead of analyzing all of this, we should just accept the parody episode for what it is: a fun little detour while we wait for news on Season 4. As Rick has advised us before: “Stop digging for hidden layers and just be impressed.” 
Do you think this should be canon or is it just a fun parody? Let us know in the comments below. Share this: 