Haigh’s plans on opening more stores around Australia and possible exporting overseas. (ABC News: Candice Prosser) 
At a time when many manufacturers are shutting their doors in South Australia, a local institution is bucking the trend by expanding. 
Haigh’s Chocolates has invested $15 million in a new factory, a move the company says will nearly triple its production capacity and allow it to employ more workers. 
“The factory is now the largest cocoa bean processing plant in Australia and the most modern of its kind in the Southern Hemisphere,” chief executive Alister Haigh said. 
The company said the new factory would allow it to increase its production capacity from 700 to 2,000 tonnes per year. Haigh’s Chocolates says the new factory will nearly triple its production capacity. (ABC News: Candice Prosser) 
Mr Haigh said the new factory would enable the popular chocolate company to open more stores around Australia and possibly export overseas as well. 
“We have seen increased demand across the eastern seaboard as well as online, meaning continued growth for the Haigh’s business,” he said. 
With carmakers and other global manufacturing businesses closing their doors in Adelaide, Mr Haigh said one of the keys to the company’s success was their control over the entire manufacturing process. Haigh’s Chocolates is an institution in Adelaide. (Flickr: OZinOH) 
“We start off with the raw cocoa bean and go right through to the retail customer, so we sort of control our own destiny … that’s probably what’s helped us,” he said. 
The computer processing technology will not replace the 600-strong workforce, with more jobs set to be created as Haigh’s opens extra stores and requires more and more chocolate to be finished and packed. 
The company said it was working hard to balance the need to expand into bigger markets while also retaining its hand-crafted elements and the workforce behind it. The company says more jobs will created as Haigh’s opens extra stores. (ABC News: Candice Prosser) 
“It’s really great to have invested … millions of dollars into a factory that’s going to support the manufacturing workers in Adelaide for the next 20 years,” supply chain manager Peter Millard said. 
The multi-million dollar enterprise is a long way from the business Mr Haigh’s great-grandfather started in 1915. 
“I think he’d be very surprised that … we’ve existed because he was quite a serial entrepreneur,” Mr Haigh said. 
“I don’t think he envisaged it to last for four generations let alone more, but hopefully he’d be proud of what we’ve done.” Topics: 