DesignOmate Mar 20 
To get successful Shopify e-commerce website designed, it is important to hireaShopifyweb designer who can design a high quality ecommerce store for your business. Due to popularity of Shopify, there are thousands of Shopify designers are ready to take on your project, but it's difficult to judge them and pick the best one for your project. We have compiled a list of qualities every qualified Shopify web designer possesses. 
Every website is an identity of the seller and his perfect salesman too. Before heading towards a web designer let us first decide on: 
What: What do you want in your e-commerce store? 
Before jumping on finding the right Shopify web designer you should decide what do you want inyour website. You need to make sure you leave no loop hole while expressing your requirements of the website. Some of the very basic details that your web designer might need are: 
• Do you have a physical store? Your web designer might need this information to explore your physical store and gather ideas and functionalities that you follow there. It will help your web designer to maintain your aesthetic and bring your brand to the digital space as in physical world. This keeps your loyal customers connected and gives them ease to shop. 
• Do you want a new website? For a new website your web designer will need to work on every minute detail. Be very clear with your idea and expectation with your site. Here your web designer will have to take care not only of the designing but also of proper SEO techniques to make sure you get great Returns on Investments. It is your web designer’s responsibility to make sure none of your investment is drained. 
• Do you want to Update the Existing website Your website designer needs to be well informed if you need a new website or you want to update the already existing website. Your web designer will be planning his actions accordingly. For a pre-existing website your web designer will have to review the reasons for less profit. It could be basic designing, user interface or some other. It is important that your web designer properly analyze your website to find solutions and provide you with high Conversion Ratio. 
• Target Audience A brief knowledge about your target audience will always help your web designer to decide on how to plan your website. This is more of your web designers’ job to do the complete research but you should brief him a little so that he has a track to move ahead on. 
• Any plans to sell on third party sites? If you are a third party seller with any of the names like Amazon or EBay. In case you don’t sell with them, are you planning to sell with them? This would help your web designer with deciding on product images to be used. They can also help you integrate your Shopify website with Amazon or EBay. 
Now that you have briefed your requirements to your web design clearly, now it's time to find the best Shopify web designer . Below are skills that make a web designer “A PRO IN SHOPIFY WEB DESIGNING.” 
1) Good communication skills It is important that the web designer you hire has good communication skills. He must be understanding and must also be able to explain well what is logically possible and what is not. Also, with regular interactions your web designer would be able to keep you updated on progress of your website. Your web designer will be mediating with the online marketing team and others involved within the process, it is important that he possess great communication skills to deliver his ideas to the team and get the final desired result. 
2) Good knowledge of Shopify themes and techniques Shopify offers its web designers a wide range of templates to use and customize their sites. Shopify expert must have good command on Shopify themes, but also keeps updating himself with the advancements Shopify has to offer its users. 
3) Responsive and custom design One of the major requirements of any website these days is being responsive. Make sure your web designer have great experience in designing responsive website that looks equally eye pleasing on a cell phone or iPad/tablet as it is on a pc. Also, since your website is your online store it must be customized in a way where it reflects your business in a best possible way. 
4) Great designers portfolio Hiring an experienced web designer with lots of e-commerce projects under his belt doesn’t always assure that he is a good fit for your business. Instead, judge a web designer portfolio on given basis: 
• Site Aesthetics The work of an expert web designer will speak for itself. With each website having its own identity it would reflect the creativity and innovation of the web designer you are deciding on. Make sure that designers' design skills should match to your design expectations or at least close to what you want in terms of aesthetic. • User Friendliness Online shoppers need the product they are looking for within minimum number of clicks. It is important that your website designer comes up with a website that gives maximum relevant products with minimum number of clicks. If a lot of irrelevant stuff comes up with the search result this could be the last visit of the buyer to your site. • Site Speed It is one of the most important factors that make your website popular among the shoppers. While going through the portfolios do check how fast or slow the website loads. This also helps you judge how good your web designer in his SEO techniques is. 
5) Basic knowledge of Shopify SEO Don't expect web designer to be SEO expert but he should have basic knowledge of SEO. Basic SEO include meta title and description for at least home page, about, contact and other informational pages, site speed optimization and Google analytics setup. 
6) Coding skills Though it would be unfair to judge too much on his/her coding skills but it is expected him to take care of small custom functionality development here and there using Shopify apps. Ask your designer if we can do bit of customization in the existing theme or in the Shopify app to achieve your critical goals. 
Who: Make sure your web designer understands who your target audience is 
Your designer should understand who your target audience is and design the site according to your business target audience. It's best to pick a designer who already have designed a site for your target audience or give some good ideas that how he will design the site to grab the attention of your targeted users. 
Like, if you aim at selling your products to the professionals it should be a mix of subtle and aesthetic looks. If it is for teenagers then the website must be a little funky with usage of colors of different genre than used for professionals. 
When: Timely delivery. Punctuality is one of the qualities that not only a web designer but every professional must have. Confirm the date of deploying your website with your web designer and make sure he sticks to it. 
How much: Before moving ahead with the web designer it is important that you discuss your budget and investment plans with your web designer. It helps him plan your website to the best of his capabilities within your pocket limits. This in long run helps you increase your Return on Investment. 
Here at DesignOmate , we have a team of Shopify experts to handle all your Shopify requirements. Be it store setup, custom store design, SEO or website redesign. With their skills and ease of communications, our web designers are always ready to push their limits and present to you out of the box ideas for your e-commerce business. 