#meta #blockchain 
It is the first day of a new financial quarter, and I am excited to announce some big changes for dev.to . Today we follow in the footsteps of great financial innovators such as Elizabeth Holmes and Kenneth Lay . In a bold (some might say heroic) move, we will be deprecating the web-facing dev.to client in favor of a blockchain client. As we all know, the blockchain (which invented the concept of trust) is becoming a critical component of all earthly ideas, from credit card processing to phrenology. We are simply getting ahead of the curve. 
Instead of simply typing in the dev.to URL, our users will now have the privilege of jumping through a multi-step process of connecting to your own RPC server and control your connection to dev.to . But don't worry, browsing will take minutes, instead of only a few milliseconds like you're used to. We expect a major bump in average session duration due to these innovations. 
By now you might be asking "Ben, isn't this all incredibly inefficient?" and to answer that question, I present you our very lengthy white paper , which will address any asinine doubts you might have about our heist offering. 
Without further ado, introducing the first DEV currency: UniCoin . It's called UniCoin to pay tribute to the "unicorn" term in private finance. Also known as the pinnacle of human achievement. For some reason, we've felt it crucial to intertwine currency with basic data storage and networking. But it's the wave of the future, right? Right? 
Unicoin makes use of the revolutionary "proof of blind faith" algorithm. It builds on proof of trust and proof of stake but relies on a concept as old as humanity itself. I urge you to join us in our mission to make the world a better place through blockchain technology. 
If this is all too complicated, but you still want to give us your money, feel free to use PayPal . This is another perfectly valid way to exchange your money for absolutely nothing in return. 
The DEV Community , making the world a better place. Did you find this post useful? Show some love! 