On The Go Toronto Magazine | Featured | KATE CAMPBELL: The HGTV Canada Star remodels her own 150-year old property — and the results are incredible KATE CAMPBELL: The HGTV Canada Star remodels her own 150-year old property — and the results are incredible April 10, 2018 By web Leave a Comment 
Where many people would have seen a 150-year-old property in major disrepair, HGTV’s Kate Campbell saw an exciting opportunity. Two years and countless hours of sweat equity later, the newly renovated farmhouse in Pickering, Ontario serves as her home and a testament to her building expertise. 
otg What attracted you to this major undertaking? 
k.c. We absolutely fell in love with the character of the house, which is something you don’t find often these days. We loved its 150 years of rich history, the beautiful property and the opportunity to breathe new life into the home. We were also drawn to its location. The Major House, as we call it, because it was built by a farmer named Henry Major, is situated at the end of a private road, surrounded by fields yet only 30 minutes from downtown Toronto. 

otg You did a terrific job of preserving the heritage and charm of the property. How did you approach blending the old and new? 
k.c. As we renovated, we tried to bring back the home’s natural beauty by incorporating some of the wood we took out while gutting the house and installing beautiful features that represent the house’s incredible history. The architecture of the Major House was beautiful to begin with, but the house overall was in severe disrepair. It had spent several years unoccupied and, while the former owners had done their best to renovate, they were never able to fully give it the attention it deserved. We worked with our architect Duy Nguyen at NCubed Designs to open up the layout of the house and make the upstairs more functional by changing some rooflines while maintaining the original look and feel of the house. 

otg Since the heritage of the property is so important throughout the design, how do you ensure that the history lasts? 
k.c. Creating a design that lasts requires elements and materials that are proven to stand the test of time. Indoors, I chose elegant, classic finishes like white shaker style cabinets and large, regal casings. In a beautiful farmhouse like this, I didn’t want to incorporate anything too modern or trendy. Outdoors, we chose low maintenance, eco-friendly materials, including Trex composite decking and a charming Trex Pergola that add timeless beauty to the space and long-lasting durability. Traditional wood decks can be beautiful, but Ontario weather can quickly take its toll, leaving wood decks faded, splintered and warped. Composite decking is designed to resist fading and mold and won’t rot, crack or warp, regardless of harsh weather or wear and tear. We also wanted the roof to draw attention because the rooflines were so gorgeous! Originally the Major House had a cedar shake roof, so we installed a beautiful metal roof that looks exactly like cedar shake, but will last forever and never discolour. The exterior of this house is a show stopper! 

otg What are your tips for bringing the comforts of the indoors outdoors? 
k.c. One of my favourite things to do with an outdoor space is to create a ‘comfort zone,’ such as a conversation nook with built-in lounges — somewhere cozy with pillows where you can relax with a good book or good friends. I’m also a fan of defining different functional spaces outdoors with weather-proof draperies or sunshades. And, lighting is essential — it not only adds ambiance, but extends the time you can enjoy your outdoor space. We used Trex Outdoor Lighting features in our backyard because they complement our deck and the aesthetics of our home. And, of course, add personality and colour with plants, flowers, artwork and whimsical accessories, just as you would inside. 

otg Your new outdoor space seems like it’s the perfect spot for hosting friends and family. What are some of your outdoor entertaining essentials? 
k.c. We love entertaining and now we have the perfect space for it! When we were remodeling, we made sure to include a fully appointed outdoor kitchen and bar complete with integrated storage so that we didn’t need to keep running inside for things and leaving our guests. We’ve also completely wired the space for sound and strate- gically placed outdoor speakers around the deck. Music is a great way to add life to any party! 
For more about Kate and the Majour House reno, visit katebuild.ca .