Doing lots of exercise in older age can prevent the immune system from declining and protect people against infections. Scientists followed 125 long-distance cyclists, some now in their 80s, and found Published: 2018/03/20 at 22:00 RELATED IMAGES BY TAGS science todayilearned argentina bprogramming feminism Bones found on South Pacific island belonged to Amelia Earhart, study concludes. The first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic disappeared while attempting to circumnavigate the globe. Along with he Bones found on South Pacific island belonged to Amelia Earhart, study concludes. The first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic disappeared while attempting to circumnavigate the globe. Along with he LSD produces a new type of ‘harmonic’ order in the brain, according to neuroimaging study - The drug resulted in the “emergence of new type of order in the brain,” the researchers found LSD produces a new type of ‘harmonic’ order in the brain, according to neuroimaging study - The drug resulted in the “emergence of new type of order in the brain,” the researchers found Men with higher levels of testosterone tend to devote more energy to keeping their romantic partners faithful and in a relationship with them. The study, published in the journal Physiology & Behavior Men with higher levels of testosterone tend to devote more energy to keeping their romantic partners faithful and in a relationship with them. The study, published in the journal Physiology & Behavior Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher