China’s increasing demand for milk will have far-reaching consequences for the world - "Even if the efficiency of the dairy industry in China is drastically increased, global emissions of greenhouse Published: 2018/04/15 at 14:00 RELATED IMAGES BY TAGS science bprogramming theworldnews astrophysicsstudyspot feminism What If A Drug Could Make Your Blood Deadly To Mosquitoes? Three high doses of a drug, ivermectin, make human blood deadly to mosquitoes for up to one month after the third treatment, finds a randomis What If A Drug Could Make Your Blood Deadly To Mosquitoes? Three high doses of a drug, ivermectin, make human blood deadly to mosquitoes for up to one month after the third treatment, finds a randomis Experiments that ask children to draw a researcher show a greater proportion of women in sketches over time. In the 1960s and 1970s, 99.4% of children drew a male scientist. That proportion dropped to Experiments that ask children to draw a researcher show a greater proportion of women in sketches over time. In the 1960s and 1970s, 99.4% of children drew a male scientist. That proportion dropped to A new study on the personal values of Trump supporters suggests they have little interest in altruism but do seek power over others, are motivated by wealth, and prefer conformity. The findings were p A new study on the personal values of Trump supporters suggests they have little interest in altruism but do seek power over others, are motivated by wealth, and prefer conformity. The findings were p Yale Study: Sad, Lonely Introverts Are Natural Born Social Psychologists: Introverts prone to melancholy are exceptionally good at accurately assessing truths about human social behavior, without form Yale Study: Sad, Lonely Introverts Are Natural Born Social Psychologists: Introverts prone to melancholy are exceptionally good at accurately assessing truths about human social behavior, without form Yale Study: Sad, Lonely Introverts Are Natural Born Social Psychologists: Introverts prone to melancholy are exceptionally good at accurately assessing truths about human social behavior, without form Newly Found Neanderthal DNA Prove Humans and Neanderthals interbred Astronomers discover that all disk galaxies rotate once every billion years, no matter their size or shape. Lead author: “Discovering such regularity in galaxies really helps us to better understand Astronomers discover that all disk galaxies rotate once every billion years, no matter their size or shape. Lead author: “Discovering such regularity in galaxies really helps us to better understand Astronomers discover that all disk galaxies rotate once every billion years, no matter their size or shape. Lead author: “Discovering such regularity in galaxies really helps us to better understand Astronomers discover that all disk galaxies rotate once every billion years, no matter their size or shape. Lead author: “Discovering such regularity in galaxies really helps us to better understand Astronomers discover that all disk galaxies rotate once every billion years, no matter their size or shape. Lead author: “Discovering such regularity in galaxies really helps us to better understand Astronomers discover that all disk galaxies rotate once every billion years, no matter their size or shape. Lead author: “Discovering such regularity in galaxies really helps us to better understand Doing lots of exercise in older age can prevent the immune system from declining and protect people against infections. Scientists followed 125 long-distance cyclists, some now in their 80s, and found Doing lots of exercise in older age can prevent the immune system from declining and protect people against infections. Scientists followed 125 long-distance cyclists, some now in their 80s, and found Bones found on South Pacific island belonged to Amelia Earhart, study concludes. The first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic disappeared while attempting to circumnavigate the globe. Along with he Bones found on South Pacific island belonged to Amelia Earhart, study concludes. The first woman to fly solo across the Atlantic disappeared while attempting to circumnavigate the globe. Along with he LSD produces a new type of ‘harmonic’ order in the brain, according to neuroimaging study - The drug resulted in the “emergence of new type of order in the brain,” the researchers found LSD produces a new type of ‘harmonic’ order in the brain, according to neuroimaging study - The drug resulted in the “emergence of new type of order in the brain,” the researchers found Men with higher levels of testosterone tend to devote more energy to keeping their romantic partners faithful and in a relationship with them. The study, published in the journal Physiology & Behavior Men with higher levels of testosterone tend to devote more energy to keeping their romantic partners faithful and in a relationship with them. The study, published in the journal Physiology & Behavior Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher Women reported higher levels of incivility from other women than their male counterparts. In other words, women are ruder to each other than they are to men, or than men are to women, finds researcher