Ariana News Leave a comment   6:31 pm) Sergey Lavrov, Russian Foreign Minister proposed holding a trilateral meeting with U.S. and Afghanistan to President Ghani on the side line of Tashkent Conference, according to the Presidential Palace or Arg. The statement which was issued yesterday, March 27, also said that President Ghani accepted Lavrov’s proposal. “President Ghani welcomed Minister Lavrov’s proposal for convening a trilateral meeting and suggested the meeting be held through the prescribed channel”, the statement reads. The proposal of holding a trilateral meeting between Russia, the United States, and Afghanistan comes amid heightening tensions between Moscow and Western Allies over poisoning of an ex-Russian Spy in a UK cathedral town. In the meantime, Sergey Lavrov on the sidelines of Tashkent conference, also expressed serious concern over Daesh presence in northern parts of Afghanistan which is a threat t the country. “We cannot solve the global problem without a global response. Afghanistan is a global issue. We see the drug trafficking has increased in the last ten to twelve years. The attempts of IS after they failed in Syria and northern parts of Afghanistan are now to threaten Russia. Our purpose is to have dialogue with US on the issue,” Lavrov said. The Afghan government also considered the joint cooperation of Russia and U.S. an essential element for providing peace in the country. “Afghanistan should be a cooperation framework between Russia and U.S. . We hope both countries work together for the peace and stability in Afghanistan,” said Salahuddin Rabani, acting foreign minister. Western countries including U.S. have expelled over 100 Russian diplomats in response to the nerve attack what they say Moscow is behind that. Particularly, the U.S. has expelled 60 Russian diplomats in response to the nerve attack. On the other hand, Russia has been repeatedly accused of supporting and arming the Taliban militant group by U.S. Officials including Gen. Nicholson, Commander of Resolute Support Mission and U.S. forces in Afghanistan.