Ariana News Leave a comment   20, 2018 8:23 pm) The U.S. officials and the NATO-led Resolute Support Commander have sent best wishes to Afghanistan people for Nawruz 1397. The U.S. Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan in a statement on Monday extended his best wishes on the occasion. “Today, I offer my best wishes to all of the communities here in the United States, as well as in Afghanistan, Azerbaijan, China, Georgia, India, Iran, Iraq, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyz Republic, Pakistan, Russia, Syria, Tajikistan, Turkey, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and around the globe as they gather around the Haftsin, cooking, feasting, dancing, singing, and spending time with family and friends,” Sullivan said. He said Nowruz is a time to reflect on hopes for the future. “May the coming year bring peace, freedom, and prosperity to all.” The U.S. Ambassador to Kabul, John Bass on Tuesday also sent greetings for Nawruz. “Nowruz Mubarak!,” Bass said in Persian a video message in which his wife Holly Holzer also appeared. He also thanked in Pashto by saying “Manana.” U.S. commander of international forces, John Nicholson, sent greetings for Nawruz in a video message. “On behalf of all of us in NATO Resolute Support, I wish you, your families and all the people of Afghanistan best wishes for this Nowruz 1397,” Nicholson said. “We all hope for peace and stability for Afghanistan. That is why we are here. That is why we value your hospitality.” He also welcomed President Ashraf Ghani’s recent peace proposal to the Taliban. “President Ghani has made a generous offer to the Taliban for peace in Afghanistan. This offer is hope for the future for all Afghans, a chance we can look forward to prosperity and security.” “Afghanistan deserves peace. We will continue to stand with you, your government and your security forces. The brave men and women of your security forces have our full support. The U.S., NATO and Resolute Support are all committed to them and to our mission here. We are with you and will stay with you. Sali Naw Mubarak,” he said.