  Editorial , Latest Updates Array The issue of poising school girls still remained unresolved—in the past, Taliban insurgents claimed responsibility for such incidents, in which several schoolgirls were hospitalized even in the capital city, Kabul. It was also created fear for students to go inside their classroom as the classes and water may have been contaminated as well. The insurgents previously poisoned several girls by adding toxic substance into the water tanks in some girl’s schools across the country. Over 40 schoolgirls were poisoned in Lashkar Gah city of Helmand province. The incident happened on Monday morning when the girls were busy in class. Though the poisoned girls have been discharged from hospital after receiving proper treatment, but what is guarantee for prevention of such incidents in the future. Terrorist will stop at nothing to keep Afghan girls from receiving an education, this is clear like open book. Throwing acid at a girls face or poison their water or their schools is clearly indication of the fact that extremist group do everything under their capacity to prevent girls from pursing education. It has been even beard result as some school girls have been closed down temporarily or even permanently. But it doesn’t mean the Taliban insurgents can stop our strong and brave girls from going to school as our security brasses will do everything to address the concerns of the students and their family. It is really heartbreaking to see that why the militant outfits are treating girls in such way which is contrary to the Islamic teachings—because pursing knowledge is obligation to boy and girl—and here is the Taliban insurgents that working exactly against this. The extremist group banned girl’s education when they were in power between 1996 and 2001, and they continue to target women and girl’s schools in the areas their control. Certainly, the Taliban insurgents are scare that when these girls get education, they will become aware of their rights as women and as a human being. One thing is for sure that there is no power, including the evil force of the Taliban militants to shut the door of schools for girls, because the knowledge is something that nobody can steal from them. Soon after the collapse of their darkest regime in the history, Afghan girls and women have won back basic rights in education, voting and employment. The Government must ensure security for thousands of girls who risk their lives to go to school in remote areas, families risk their safety by supporting rights of education. Attacking schoolgirls must not be seen as normal or dismissed as hysteria. They are the future of Afghanistan and their lives are worth protecting.