We share a lot of interests with Israel: MBS Wednesday, 04 April 2018 03:29 Written by Heart of Asia Read 25 times Rate this item Email 
Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Mohamad bin Salman has declared that Israel has the right to its own land alongside Palestinians. In an interview with the US-based The Atlantic magazine, the 32-year-old heir to the Saudi throne declared: "I believe that each people, anywhere, have a right to live in their peaceful nation." The crown prince - commonly known by his initials, MBS - said that "there are a lot of interests" his country shares with Israel. "Israel is a big economy compared to their size and it’s a growing economy, and of course there are a lot of interests we share with Israel and if there is peace, there would be a lot of interest between Israel and the Gulf Cooperation Council countries and countries like Egypt and Jordan."MBS also said that while his country has "religious concerns" about the holy mosque in Jerusalem and the rights of Palestinians, it has no objection "against any other people"."I believe the Palestinians and the Israelis have the right to have their own land. But we have to have a peace agreement to assure the stability for everyone and to have normal relations."MBS also said Saudi Arabia "does not have a problem" with anti-Semitism, saying that Islam's Prophet Muhammad "even married a Jewish woman".Saudi Arabia and Israel have no formal diplomatic relationship.Riyadh has long maintained that a peace agreement with Israel should be based on the 1967 demarcation line established before Palestinian lands were usurped during the Six-Day War. Recent developments in Riyadh, however, have indicated that ties between the two countries are warming up.In March, Saudi Arabia granted India's national carrier a permission to use its airspace to operate a direct flight between New Delhi and Tel Aviv.The move ends a decades-long ban by Saudi Arabia on the use of its airspace for flights to Israel. Israel's Communications Minister Ayoub Kara also invited Saudi Arabia's Grand Mufti, Abdul Aziz Al Sheikh, to visit Israel.While visiting the United States, MBS also met with several Jewish groups and pro-Israel lobbies. 
back to top 
Kunduz tragedy: The need to stop its repeat 
Tens of people, including civilians, suffered casualties when an airstrike targeted a gathering in northern Kunduz province. The attack reportedly carried out by Afghan Air Force (AAF) has targeted a religious school in Dasht-e- Archi district, where a graduation ceremony was underway. In addition to Taliban fighters, some civilians including children were also reportedly among the fatalities. Civilian casualties continue unabated despite promises by the warring sides to protect civilian lives. Ordinary Afghans, who have received no mercy from both the corruption-riddled government and the ruthless Taliban, are losing their precious lives every day. They are massacred sometimes in Taliban suicide bombings in crowed areas, and sometimes in airstrikes conducted by Afghan and American forces on their public gatherings. No side really has any regard for civilian lives. Almost in all instances, civilians often suffer preventable causalities. Kunduz tragedy is also no exception. Even if the government’s claim about the presence of senior Taliban members at the gathering is true, the attack is not justifiable, because it has also caused casualties to civilians, especially children who legally bear no responsibility. The government may try to characterize the slain or wounded Taliban members as important leaders in a bid to justify the strike, yet it cannot find defensible grounds for it. Afghan war will not end with the killing of Taliban leaders. Had that been the case, Afghanistan would have already achieved peace and stability. The Taliban leaders are not the cadre the group will struggle to replace; it is rather very easy for them to find their successors. Such raids would strengthen rather than weaken the Taliban, which is the very thing the enemies of Afghanistan are looking for. They can kill one or two Taliban commanders, but the entire families of civilian victims would swing into action to seek revenge. That way, the Afghan government would lose more with the hope to gain something. The ongoing war is not that new that the government leaders are unaware of the consequences of such incidents. They should have now realized that civilian casualties in government-backed operations are a major driver of the lingering conflict. For their part, the Taliban who often claim to be the real representatives of Afghan people and are a party to the conflict should advise their fighters to stay away from such public gatherings so that they will not pose any threat to civilian lives. 