admin April 5, 2018 In Nation Array AT-KABUL: The Parliament on Wednesday summoned officials of the independent election commission for a briefing about the upcoming elections and security threats. Most of the lawmakers however believed that the upcoming vote will be an impossible milestone in the face of the ongoing countrywide aggravation of insecurity. Recently the Lower House of Parliament expressed grievances over high security threats which could derail the upcoming parliamentary and district council vote. Although the electoral body has set the date of elections on October 20th, but lawmakers believe that holding a free, fair and nationwide election is an impossible Chief of IEC Abdul Badi Sayad while, briefing to the member of the Wolesi Jirga about running of election said ensured people of well preparation of electoral bodies for upcoming parliamentary election this year. He said that IEC has shared its concern about insecurity issues with the government and security organs and they pledge to reinforce security for polling sites and election in the country. Coming up with an example he said that earlier IEC provincial branch in Laghman came under rocket attack, which was reported to the security organs to reinforce provincial offices security. He said that voter registration process for parliamentary and provincial council election will be started in 14th April 2018. He elaborated that eligible voters will be registered through their national ID cards in the centers. IEC will exert utmost efforts to run a free and fair election, but the relevant organs must boost up observation in order to prevent distribution of fake national ID cards, he added. For the process of voter registration $30 million was allocated with 90 percent donation of donors and 10 percent share of government, he mentioned. He said that 12,000 staffs already have been hired for registration process and 20810 other employee will be hired for the process of voter registration. He said that book registrations already have been sent to nine provinces and work is underway to send to the 13 other provinces soon. IEC head while expressing concern over interference of some powerful figures including some parliamentarian in provincial offices called on lawmakers to support IEC in order to keep independency. The IEC will use mosque, school and some other public institutions for polling site in order to boost up transparency during polling process, he underlined.