admin April 6, 2018 In Latest Updates , Nation Array 
AT News Report-KABUL: Five senior Pakistani military advisors supporting the Taliban insurgents were among a bevy of terrorists killed in the famous Kunduz airstrike—a move that has sparked uproar in Pakistan. 
The latest findings of the Afghan National Army has revealed that five Pakistanis who visited Dasht-e-Archi district to help the Taliban insurgents were killed in the raid, a military source said on Friday. 
The 209th Shaheen Corps of the Afghan Military, said that killed Pakistanis were visited the district to help coordinate the future spring offensive of the Taliban insurgents. 
“Not only this, but they (killed Pakistanis) was also wanted to help the insurgents in establishing contacts with other certain countries in the region,” the Corps added. 
Noting this, the current uproar in Pakistan regarding the airstrike in Kunduz, is not about to sympathy with civilian victims, but it’s because of Pakistani advisors killed in the airstrike. 
Several deadly suicide bombings occurred in Kabul, the capital city that martyred and wounded dozens of people, but nothing has come from Pakistan in the support of victims. All the game is clear, and Pakistan once again showed its wide support of the Taliban insurgents. The National Unity Government always said that Taliban insurgents can’t last a week sans Pakistan’s support. 
Last week, key clandestine Taliban gathering came under assault of the Afghan air forces, in which senior Taliban chieftains were killed. 
Ministry of Defense Spokesperson Gen. Radmanish said on Tuesday over 18 Taliban chieftains for northeastern Afghanistan were killed and 12 more sustained critical injuries during the Monday airstrike in Dasht-e-Archi district of Kunduz province. 
According to Gen. Radmanish, the Taliban militants initially opened fire on army helicopters after their base was attacked with rockets and later opened fire on civilians. 
The airstrike was carried out after obtaining critical intelligence information substantiated with GPS-captured photos pinpointing the exact coordinates of a gathering of key Taliban chieftains at a religious school observing a ritual, he reckoned, insisting that the strikes targeted the location where the Taliban leaders gathered, and “any civilian casualties have been a result of sporadic gunfire by panicked Taliban militants at people right after the air strike.” 
Unfortunately, there are civilian casualties as the report of 50 children who have been martyred in airstrike has been surfaced, sparking anger among the Afghans. 
In that time, the Police Chief of Dasht-e-Archi district told Afghanistan Times that 87 people including the Taliban commanders and civilians had been killed during and after the airstrikes. He said the key Taliban chieftain had gathered to observe a graduation ritual of students in a religious madrasa, in which civilians had presence too.