admin April 17, 2018 In Latest Updates , Nation Array 
AT Monitoring Desk-KABUL: The 29th Arab Summit — Al-Quds Summit — has strongly condemned attempts to link terrorism to Islam, a religion that sets great store by peace. Leaders and heads of Arab countries, who met in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, issued the call in a unanimous declaration on Sunday 
“We affirm the illegality of the American decision to recognise Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. We categorically refuse to recognise Al-Quds as the capital of Israel, where East Al-Quds will remain the capital of Palestine. 
“We warn against taking any action that would change the current legal and political status of Al-Quds,” they said in the declaration issued at the end of the summit. 
The summit welcomed the decision of the UN General Assembly on Al-Quds, commending the states that supported it. They promised continued efforts to re-launch effective Israeli-Palestinian peace negotiations on ending the political stalemate resulting from the intransigence of the Israeli position. 
The conflict could be ended through a two-state solution that guarantees the establishment of an independent Palestinian state with the July 1967 borders and East Al-Quds as its capital, the declaration says. 
“This is the way to achieve security and stability in the region, as per the announcement of the Palestinian president at the Security Council on February 20, 2018,” it added 
The participants also denounced targeting 119 missile attacks by Iranian-backed Houthi militias on Saudi Arabia through, Makkah and a number of other cities. 
They affirmed full support for the kingdom of Saudi Arabia in all measures taken to protect its security and capabilities. 
The global fraternity was asked to toughen sanctions on Iran and its militias, prevent it from supporting terrorist groups, supplying Houthi militias with missiles manufactured in Iran and launched from Yemen toward Saudi cities and to abide by the UN Resolution No. 2216. 
Pledging all necessary efforts to eliminate terrorist gangs, their supporters, its organisers and sponsors at home and abroad such as Iran and its arms in the Middle East and Africa, the summit hoped the free world would back their quest for peace, security and development. 
“We strongly condemn attempts to link terrorism and Islam. We call upon the international community … to issue a unified definition of terrorism. Terrorism has no religion, no homeland and no identity.” 
All countries were urged to shoulder their responsibilities to combat this dangerous scourge. “We deplore the distortion by some extremist groups of the image of the true religion of Islam by linking it to terrorism, and warn that such attempts serve terrorism itself.”