 04 pm) Uzbekistan will open a high-level international conference on Afghanistan “Peace Process, Cooperation in the Sphere of Security and Regional Interaction” in Tashkent tomorrow. The High Peace Council (HPC) says President Ashraf Ghani will attend the conference and call for the International Community’s support from an Afghan-led peace process. “Afghan officials, the world and regional countries will discuss on Afghanistan’s peace issue in Tashkent. The conference follows the second Kabul peace process conference. President Ghani will focus on Afghanistan’s peace offer to Taliban,” said Ehsan Taher, the spokesperson of HPC. Afghan analysts believe that a regional meeting is very essential to Afghanistan for its economic growth and stability. “The Tashkent conference is a regional meeting which is very important for Afghanistan’s stability and economic growth. We will attract different countries as much as we can for the peace and stability of the country,” said Ghafor Jawid, a political analyst. According to the information, among the guests invited to the conference are the UN General Secretary Antonio Guterres and the UN Special Envoy to Afghanistan Tadamiti Yamamoto, High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini, as well as the foreign ministers of China, Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, France, Turkey, India, Iran, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. The conference participants are expected to express a consolidated position at regional and global levels on necessity of starting direct negotiations between the Afghan government and the Taliban movement. President Ghani has offered the Taliban unconditional peace talks and the possibility of political recognition during the second Kabul peace conference. He said the government would recognize the Taliban as a legitimate political group if it accepted a ceasefire, entered peace talks and recognized the government and rule of law.