admin March 26, 2018 In Latest Updates , Nation Array 
AT News Report-KABUL: The Patriotic Movement of Afghanistan on Sunday said the terrorist attack on peaceful Kabul Sit-in has been carried out by Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and wowed to continue its struggle until peace and stability was not prevailed across the country. 
Senior leadership of the movement, during a press conference at Sit-In, slammed Pakistan for conducting terrorist and destructive activities in Afghanistan and systemic slow motion genocide of ethnic Pashtun, Baloch and Hazara populations in Pakistan. 
A central leader of the movement, Israr Karimzai, said Afghans—across the board gathered at Kabul-Sit-In to raise voice and mobilize the general masses in support of Afghan-led peace process. 
He said Pakistan’s notorious intelligence Agency ISI carried out a heinous act of terrorism against the peaceful and impartial Sit-in, staged by the movement at a time when participants were busy in prayers for the victims of Helmand’s attack. However, he pledged continuation of the Sit-In to be extended to the provinces as well. 
Terming Pakistan a continued threat to regional and international peace and stability, he demanded the international community to recognize and enlist Pakistan as a terror sponsor state and impose economic and diplomatic sanctions on it, adding the silence by the international community against Pakistan sponsored terrorism and terror havens on its soil is condemnable. 
Abasin Barial, another central leader of the movement called on Taliban to embrace the comprehensive and precondition talks offer extended by the National Unity Government and put an end to war in the country. He said the ongoing Taliban’s militancy is nothing more than killing innocent Afghans and destabilizing the country that fulfils the nefarious designs of Pakistan. 
In case of denial to the peace offer, public uprising would be staged against Taliban militants across the country, he added. 
Moreover, Ahmadullah Waziri, another member of the movement urged the Afghan masses to be united under one umbrella to defeat state sponsored terrorism and establish durable peace and stability in the country. 
Displaying the details of the casualties, Aimal another member of the movement, said Zahid ud Din from Paktia province embraced martyrdom in the attack and 14 others, including Dr. Mujeeb Mandozai, Sayed Shah, Nasir Ahmad, Khalil Ur Rehman, Yousaf, Umer, Ihsanullah, Dawran sustained light and deep injuries. 
Aimal demanded the government to launch probe into the incident and further unmask Pakistan for its terrorist involvement in the country. He called on Afghans, especially on the youth to take active part in activities of the movement to get rid of state sponsored terrorism. 
Maiwand Aryan, an active leader of the movement said Pakistan has waged direct war on Afghanistan and pursuing its notorious strategic depth in Afghanistan, aimed at destabilizing Afghanistan and undermining US led war on terror. 
“Time has arrived to change Pakistan’s strategic depth into its strategic death,” Aryan said. 
Dr. Naeem Afzali from the Hazara community said Afghans on both sides of the Durand Line could not be separated by the imaginary lines. He said Afghans stand behind the Pashtun Long March and its leadership and endorse their legitimate demands of right to life and freedom. 
He called on the international community to press Pakistan and force it to stop Pashtun, Hazara and Baloch genocide in Pakistan. 
The press conference was attended by more than five hundred activists and politicians, including Zakia Wardak, chairperson of the Afghan Samon Society. 
Moreover, the National Security Adviser Haneef Atmar has condemned the terrorist attack on Kabul Sit-in in strongest terms and prayed for the quickest recovery of the injured. 
“It is inhuman and against all principles to attack peaceful gatherings that seek to raise voices against terrorism and its sponsors, brutality and injustice,” Atmar displayed a message on his official Twitter account. 
Moreover, the head of Pashtun Protection Movement, Manzoor Pashteen and a large number of Pashtun, Baloch, Sindhi and Muhajir nationalist political activists in Pakistan have also expressed their anger against the attack on Kabul Sit-In and extended their messages of unity and condolences.