admin March 26, 2018 In Latest Updates , Nation Array 
AT News Report-KABUL: Reacting to the remark made by Gen. John W. Nicholosn, the Commander of the Resolute Support Mission and US forces in Afghanistan, regarding Russia’s supports to the Taliban, the Russian embassy in Kabul said that such serious allegations should be backed up by irrefutable evidence. While rejecting the claim as baseless, Russia has poured scorn over the US allegation that it is arming the Taliban. 
“We have taken note of new statements of Nicholson regarding the alleged Russian support to the Taliban in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. It’s worth reminding to high-ranking officials that such serious allegations should be backed up by irrefutable evidence. Despite this, the US government official representatives are constantly allowing themselves to publicly voice idle gossips. Once again, we insist that such statements are absolutely baseless and appeal to officials not to talk nonsense,” the Russia embassy said in a statement on Sunday. 
Moreover, we were surprised by the content of the article: “U.S. says Russian support for Taliban hurts peace process in Afghanistan ” on the website of the news agency CBS News, the statement added. 
In addition to chronic unfounded accusations the author of the article thought up a new lie, as absurd as all previous insinuations. According to the journalist, Russia allegedly shares some intelligence data with the Taliban! Total lunacy of this fabrication is aggravated by the following statement of the correspondent –“the Russian Foreign Ministry has admitted that Moscow shares intelligence with the Taliban”! The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation has its own generally available website, where all statements, comments and briefings are published, including materials in the English language. We would be interested to get the hyperlink to this confirmation,the statement furthered. 
According to the statement, such propaganda tricks are designed for inattentive but suggestible audience and aimed at discrediting Russia’s foreign policy and denigrating our country in the court of world public opinion. 
It looks like by distracting the public attention those who are really responsible for the deteriorating situation in Afghanistan are trying to put the burden of guilt for their failures on Russia and damage the Russian-Afghan relations, the statement concluded.