  AT-KABUL: At least 51 militants were killed and 19 others wounded in major military crackdown operations within the past two days across the country. In a press release issued here, Ministry of Defense, (MoD) said that Afghan National Army (ANA) in collaboration with Afghan National Police (ANP) and National Directorate of Security (NDS) personal has conducted joint operations against insurgents in different areas of Nangarhar, Khost, Paktia, Paktika, Urozgan, Farah, Badghis, Faryab, Sar-e-pul and Helmand provinces. Statement said that in these operations 51 insurgents including four Daesh affiliates and four Haqani network members were killed and 19 others wounded. Afghan National and Defense Security forces shelled and bombed the enemies’ positions and sanctuaries by artilleries and air forces. During these operations in the past 24 hours, 14 insurgents were killed and ten other were wounded in Dehrawod and Chora districts of Urozgan, 13 Taliban terrorists were killed in Nadershah Kot district of Khost. Eight insurgents were killed in Nahre Saraj district of Helmand, Four ISIS insurgents were killed and ISIS’ hideouts destroyed in Achin district of Nangarhar, Four members of Haqani network killed, one wounded and one vehicle destroyed in Zurmat district of Paktia. Similar, four insurgents were killed and six other were wounded in SuzmaQala district of Sar-e-pul, four insurgents were killed, one vehicle and 22 bags of explosives seized in Chahab and Baharak districts of Badakhshan, two insurgents were wounded and two vehicles were destroyed in Pushtrod district of Farah. In past 24 hours, nine planed clearing operations, and 68 Special Forces operations conducted in eight provinces; also, Air forces conducted 91 aerial operations supporting Afghan National army including 17 strikes on enemy’s sanctuaries. ANA discovered and confiscated weapons and ammunition in the operations as well. ANA as the nation’s defense forces are ready to give sacrifice to bring lasting peace and security to the people and are determined to eradicate terror groups in Afghanistan.