PSL in Lahore PZ v QG Play 1st Eliminator By husnain · March 21, 2018 · Comments Off Cricket , News · Tagged: Cricket , eliminator darren sammi peshawar 
Lahore, In the second playoff match of PSL 3, the teams of Peshawar Zalmi vs Quetta Gladiators will play T20 match against each other in Lahore. Both the teams will play their eliminator 1 match in Gaddafi Stadium Lahore on 20 March 2018. The important fight of the PSL 3 will be fought in Lahore today and the winner of the previous edition, Zalmi will show the performance against Quetta Gladiators. Both the teams also played the final of the previous edition. 
Both the teams played their league matches in Dubai and Sharjah and they won 5 matches each team and got ten points each in PSL 3. The team, which will lose the match today, will be dropped from the mega event. The today winner will play the next match against Karachi Kings on 21 March 2018 in the same cricket stadium. The match will be started at 07:00 pm according to Pakistan standard time. peshawar vs quetta match psl match 
The captain of Quetta Gladiator, Sarfaraz Ahmed said that his team has the winning combination and they have enough potential to win this match. Kevin Pietersen and Shane Watson did not come with his team and he said that there is substitute of these players but the new comers will not disappoint them and they will try to give good performance during the match. 
Peshawar Zalmi won the previous edition as the international players of Zalmi arrived at Lahore to play the T20 matches of this event. Darren Sami not only won the matches but also the hearts of Pakistani viewers. Muhammad Hafeez said that they are defending champion and they are feeling pressure in this match. There are over 12 international players and coaches of Pakistan Super League reached in Lahore. The overseas players are included with captain of Peshawar Zalmi, Darren Sammy, Evan Louis, Chris Jordan, Rickie Wessels, Liam Dawson and Andre Fletcher. 
The international players of Karachi Kings are Landle Simmons, Joe Denly, Ravi Bopara, Kayle Mills, David Wiese and Colin Ingram. The international players of Quetta Gladiators are Mahmood Ullah and Rilee Rossouw are also included and the coaching staff is included with Mickey Arthur, Vivian Richards and Julian Fountain. Peshawar Zalmi won by 1 run!