Islamabad United Reached in PSL 3 Final By husnain · March 20, 2018 · Comments Off Cricket , News · Tagged: Islamabad United , psl 3 Islamabad United Squad 2018 
Dubai, In the Pakistan Super League third edition first qualifying round match, Islamabad United defeated Karachi Kings by the convincing victory of 8 wickets. IU defeated KK with massive wickets and reached in the final of the PSL 3. 
The first qualifying match of the first play off stage of the PSL 3 was played in Dubai and the teams of Islamabad United and Karachi Kings played against each other in this first playoff match. Islamabad United defeated Karachi Kings by 8 wickets to qualify for the final of the mega event. Karachi Kings won the toss and elected to bat first. They played first and scored 155 runs in the allotted 20 overs. Islamabad United achieved the target by the loss of two wickets. 
In pursuit of target, the openers of Islamabad United, Luke Ronchi and Sahibzada Farhan started the innings. Both the players adopted the aggressive style from the start and they scored 69 runs in just 4 overs. Luke Ronchi has made the fastest fifty uptil now on just 19 balls. Both the openers have set the opening partnership of 91 runs on just 42 balls and at this moment, Sahibzada Farhan scored 29 runs and he was given out. The new coming batsman, Samit Patel also adopted the aggressive style. Luke Ronchi made 94 runs on 39 balls and he remained not out. In his inning, 12 fours and 6 fours are included. Islamabad got the target of 155 runs on the loss of 2 wickets in the 13 th over. islamabad united 
The fielding of Karachi Kings was not up to the mark as their dropped three easy catches. They also misfielded in the ground and they left the ball and it struck against the boundary line. Karachi Kings batted first after winning the toss and they scored 154 runs. Khurram Manzoor and Joe Denly started the innings but Khurram Manzoor managed to score only 17 runs and he was declared out on the ball of Muhammad Sami. Babar Azam came on the one down position but he could not make any run and he was out of the ball of Muhammad Sami once again. 
Captain Eoin Morgan tried to manage the inning of his team but he was also out on just 21 runs. Then Colin Ingram came on the wicket and they scored 82 runs partnership. Denly completed his fifty and he became hit wicket on the ball of Faheem Ashraf. Colin Ingram played aggressively and he made 68 runs on just 30 balls due to which Karachi Kings reached to the total of 154 runs for the loss of 4 wickets in the allotted overs. SIX! 2.4 Tymal Mills to Luke Ronchi