0 116 
Karachi: Sindh Minister for Labour, Transport and Information Syed Nasir Hussain Shah along with the Country Director ILO @ Islamabad Mr. An Grid Kristen performed an signing ceremony of “MoU” to compensate the affectees of Baldia Factory incident, which was happened in September 2012 at his office here this evening. 
Head of PILER Mr. Karamat Ali, Deputy Secretary General of National Trade Union Federation Nasir Mansoor, Secretary Labour Abdul Rasheed Solangi, Commissioner SESSI Dr. Nasimul Ghani Sahto, Director Labour Sindh Khadim Hussain Butto, officers of Labour Bux Ali Mahar and others attended the MoU ceremony. On the occasion, Syed Nasir Hussain Shah, the Labour Minister has said that today we are gather here to sign the MoU regarding compensation to the affectees of Baldia Factory incident. He said that the Government of Sindh had already compensated the 260 victims, with an amount of Rs.1 billion, which was timely paid to them. Further more the PILER & NTUF jointly moved to ILO, for the purpose and made an agreement with ILO to get compensation from German Company KIK. After hectic efforts they successed to get US $ 5.15 million (Rs. 52 crore approximately ) from KIK company Germany. The said amount was handed over to ILO account than it would be deposited in SESSI account to disburse further to the families of victims, widows and children as per SESSI law Rs.22500 in their account with 75% families/widow and 20% children of the victims would also get a60% of the reference wage of Rs.22500/= SESSI family pension. Country Director ILO Mr. An Grid Kristen has thanked the Government, Labour Department and partners of PILER and NTUF, assured that ILO would extend all possible help and cooperation for the labourers welfare and betterment. Mr. Karamat Ali, Mr. Nasir Mansoor and Secretary Labour Abdul Rasheed Solangi also briefed about the compensation of ILO, and method of disbursement to the 260 affectees of the Baldia incident and thanked the Government of Sindh who successes /pleaded the case of the victims at every level. Earlier Country Director ILO Ms. An Grid Kristen and Secretary Labour Abdul Rasheed Solangi were performed the MOU ceremony, signed and exchanged the MoU’s. Syed Nasir Hussain Shah, Minister Labour was also present. SHARE