Seminar held on unity is our strength By 0 100 
Karachi: Founder of Pakistan, Quaid-e-Azam, Mohammad Ali Jinnah on 21st March,1940 in his speech at Dhaka had declared Muslims of sub continent as one nation, but it is very unfortunate that we have now divided into linguistic basis by ignoring quaid-e- Azam thinking. 
In this situation, it is our responsibility to tell our young generation the real causes of the creation of Pakistan. It is also responsibility of all Pakistani peoples to celebrate 21st March every year as Love to Pakistan day. If we wish to see Pakistan moving towards national development and prosperity, we have no other way except to encourage love and peace sentiments among public which will also help to develop national integrity also. These views were expressed by the speakers at a seminar on” Unity is our strength” held at Mohammad Ali Jinnah University, (MAJU) Karachi last evening on the eve of Pakistan day celebrations. The Seminar was organized by head of student’s welfare society, MAJU Rehan Muzammel Butt. Head of Social Sciences Department, MAJU Dr. Aziz Ur Rehman Saifee chaired the seminar. Those who addressed the seminar were included Assistant Professor, Social Sciences department, MAJU, Mohammad Rehan, student from minority Kalapna Devi, head of JBA, Hassan Mehmood, Manager, Al-midrar, Talha Khan, In charge lab, PCSIR, Dr. Seema and President, People’s lawyer Forum, District Central Adeel Faeooqi. Addressing to the seminar, Dr. Aziz Ur Rehman Saifee said that we love to our country very much that is why we celebrate Pakistan day with great enthusiasm and fervor every year. He said that luckily creation of Pakistan resolution was passed on 23rd March, 1940 at Lahore. He said our forefathers obtained independence after a very long struggle and great sacrifices and now it is the responsibility of our young generation to make a greater Pakistan in 21st century as independent and sovereign state. He said Pakistan is a gift of God for us, no other country is much better in comparison to our country; our people who are living abroad still can’t forget Pakistan in any way and majority of them is now thinking to return back to their homeland. SHARE