Home / Latest News / Multan Customs to hold auction of NDP vehicles & goods today Multan Customs to hold auction of NDP vehicles & goods today Reported by: `Imran Ali March 21, 2018 
MULTAN: The Customs Collectorate will hold auction of confiscated vehicles and miscellaneous goods on 21st March (today). 
About 46 different lots of seized goods including nine vehicles and other confiscated items will be presented for auction. 
All these presented vehicles and goods were impounded by the Customs Anti-Smuggling Organizations in their different actions in the jurisdiction. 
Multan Customs collectorate will present nine various non-duty-paid vehicles for public auction including Toyota Land Cruiser Prado TZ, Toyota Land Cruiser jeep V8, Toyota Premio ,Toyota Corolla G, Honda Civic, Suzuki Sierra jeep, Toyota Hilux Surf, Toyota Vitz and Toyota Land Cruiser jeep without seats. 
Besides vehicles, about 37 various lots of miscellaneous goods including foreign origin Close Circuit Camera TV, GPS vehicles trackers & car alarming, portable two way radio Walkie Talkie will be auctioned in the Multan Customs. Huge quantity of foreign origin medicines will be auctioned only registered companies under Drugs Regulatory Authority of Pakistan Act 2012 (DRAP). 
Multan Customs is also offering 10,000 liters High Speed Diesel (HSD) in the auction and only oil marketing companies are eligible to participate in the auction of petroleum products. Huge quantity of foreign origin branded cell phones including IPhones, Android versions will be available in the auction and successful bidders of cell phones have to furnish Pakistan Telecommunication Authority (PTA) certificate for the mobile phones before the delivery of goods. 
Foreign origin art silk cloth, curtain cloth, plastic valve, dental surgical tools, Samsung brand LED TVs in different model and series, foreign origin LTV and HTV tyres and tubes, auto parts and other confiscated items will be auctioned off. 
Assistant Collector Muhammad Ikram will supervise the auction process while Principal Appraiser Mahmood Ahmad Khan, Inspector Zia Bhatti will conduct the auction process at Multan Dry Port Sher Shah Road. 
Multan customs authorities are trying to generate more revenue from auction during the ongoing fiscal Year 2017-18 and different advertisement were published in the newspapers regarding public auction. Customs have also displayed different banners of auction outside Customs House to inform public. 2018-03-21